and then human rights issues , and democracy issues , reinforcing good habits among the countries is very important . i think it ’ s fair to say that the elections that will be taking place in myanmar would not have happened if it hadn ’ t been for the good example that indonesia set with its transition , and other asean countries showing the path from military rule towards democracy , and how , through all the lessons that have been learned , that could be accomplished . and that i think created more space within myanmar to -- and president thein sein to feel that this is possible .
now , in the press 's mind and in some of the public 's mind , these two cases are contradictory . they are not to me . in each of these cases , i had to strike the right balance between transparency and national security .
thanks to panama ’ s leadership , this summit included a special focus on how countries can expand access to education . i want to thank our private sector partners who pledged to continue their support of our 100,000 strong in the americas initiative to encourage more exchanges between our students . the nearly $ 70 million in investments that i ’ ve announced in jamaica will expand education and training and employment programs for young people across latin america and the caribbean , including in impoverished and marginalized communities . and the young leaders of the americas initiative that i launched will help young entrepreneurs and civil society leaders across the entire region access the training and the resources and connections they need to start new ventures , including the small businesses that create so many jobs in the region .
they listened to a wide variety of groups , many of which are represented here today and i want to thank for their input : industry and academia , civil liberties and private -- privacy advocates .
we are troubled on every side , yet not distressed ; we are perplexed , but not in despair ; persecuted , but not forsaken ; cast down , but not destroyed ... . as the governor said , you have shown the world what it means to love thy neighbor . you ’ ve banded together . you ’ ve come to each other ’ s aid . you ’ ve demonstrated a simple truth : that amid heartbreak and tragedy , no one is a stranger . everybody is a brother . everybody is a sister . we can all love one another .
and finally , we must draw on the strength of our values . for the challenges that we face may have changed , but the things that we believe in must not . and that 's why we must promote our values by living them at home -- which is why i have prohibited torture and will close the prison at guantanamo bay . and we must make it clear to every man , woman , and child around the world who lives under the dark cloud of tyranny that america will speak out on behalf of their human rights , and tend to the light of freedom , and justice , and opportunity , and respect for the dignity of all peoples . that is who we are . that is the source , the moral source of america 's authority .
you see , there has always been a tension between the desire to allow markets to function without interference and the absolute necessity of rules to prevent markets from falling out of kilter . but managing that tension , one that we ’ ve debated since the founding of this nation , is what has allowed our country to keep up with a changing world .
and for me and my administration , upholding that trust is not just a matter of policy , it is not about politics ; it is a moral obligation . that ’ s why my very first budget included the largest percentage increase to the va budget in the past 30 years .
one thing when you ’ re in the white house , you ’ ve got a lot of history books around you . and so i ’ ve been reading up on the history here .
well , we have evidence from the past decade that sanctions alone are not sufficient to prevent iran from pursuing its nuclear ambitions . and if it , in fact , does not have some sense that sanctions will be removed , it will not have an interest in avoiding the path that it ’ s currently on .
the truth is , the united states ca n't meet this challenge alone . solving this problem will require all of us working together . i understand that your meeting is being attended by government officials from over a dozen countries , including the uk , canada , mexico , brazil and chile , poland and australia , india and indonesia . and i look forward to working with all nations to meet this challenge in the coming years .
now , i ’ m in knoxville not only because i just like knoxville , but i ’ m here today because one of my resolutions is to make sure that folks across this great country feel like they are coming back . and there is no doubt : thanks to the steps we took early on to rescue our economy and to rebuild it on a new foundation , america is coming back .
i know how hard it is . it comes with little sleep , little pay , and a lot of sacrifice . there are days of disappointment . but sometimes , just sometimes , there are nights like this : a night -- a night that , years from now , when we 've made the changes we believe in , when more families can afford to see a doctor , when our children -- when malia and sasha and your children inherit a planet that 's a little cleaner and safer , when the world sees america differently , and america sees itself as a nation less divided and more united , you 'll be able to look back with pride and say that this was the moment when it all began .
now , all of us recognize that we must do more than look back -- we must make a judgment about how to move forward . what is needed ? what can best be done ? what must be done ? senator mccain wants to talk of our tactics in iraq ; i want to focus on a new strategy for iraq and the wider world .
and i want you to know that for all the jokes and the occasional gripes , i cherish that work , as well . in fact , tonight i wanted to present all of you with a bipartisan congressional resolution that honors all those wonderful contributions that journalists have made to our country and the world -- but , unfortunately , i could n't break the filibuster .
god bless you , and god bless the united states of america . thank you . everybody , please have a seat , have a seat . well , good morning , everyone . we are gathered in the heart of our nation ’ s capital , surrounded by memorials to leaders and citizens who served our nation in its earliest days and in its days of greatest trial . today is such a time for america .
now , i ’ m not here to subject you to a long policy speech . i gave one on thursday in which i said that the united states sees the historic changes sweeping the middle east and north africa as a moment of great challenge , but also a moment of opportunity for greater peace and security for the entire region , including the state of israel .
this is the price and the promise of citizenship . this is the source of our confidence -- the knowledge that god calls on us to shape an uncertain destiny . this is the meaning of our liberty and our creed -- why men and women and children of every race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall , and why a man whose father less than sixty years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can now stand before you to take a most sacred oath .
i ’ d like to focus on how we -- and when i say `` we , '' in particular young people -- can work together to make progress in three areas that will define our times -- security , peace and prosperity .
businesses depend on our transportation systems , on our power grids , on our communications networks . and rebuilding them creates good-paying jobs right now that can ’ t be outsourced . and by the way , this isn ’ t a democratic idea . republicans built a lot of stuff . this is the land of lincoln . lincoln was all about building stuff -- first republican president . and yet , as a share of our economy , we invest less in our infrastructure than we did two decades ago . and that ’ s inefficient at a time when it ’ s as cheap as it ’ s been since the 1950s to build things . it ’ s inexcusable at a time when so many of the workers who build stuff for a living are sitting at home waiting for a call .
so here ’ s the challenge : higher education has never been more important , but it ’ s also never been more expensive . the average undergrad who borrows money to pay for college graduates with about $ 28,000 in student loan debt . that ’ s just the average ; some students end up with a lot more than that -- you know who you are . i ’ m not telling you anything you don ’ t know .
so , this mission , protecting our information and privacy in the information age , this should not be a partisan issue . this should be something that unites all of us as americans . it ’ s one of those new challenges in our modern society that crosses the old divides -- transcends politics , transcends ideology . liberal , conservative , democrat , republican , everybody is online , and everybody understands the risks and vulnerabilities as well as opportunities that are presented by this new world .
i 've gone to some of the best schools in america and i 've lived in one of the world 's poorest nations . i am married to a black american who carries within her the blood of slaves and slave owners , an inheritance we pass on to our two precious daughters .
the strong too often dominate the weak , and too many of those with wealth and with power find all manner of justification for their own privilege in the face of poverty and injustice and so for all our technology and scientific advances , we see here in this country and around the globe violence and want and strife that would seem sadly familiar to those in ancient times . we know these things . and hopefully one of the benefits of the wonderful education that you have received here at notre dame is that you 've had time to consider these wrongs in the world , perhaps recognized impulses in yourself that you want to leave behind . you 've grown determined -- each in your own way -- to right them . and yet one of the vexing things for those of us interested in promoting greater understanding and cooperation among people is the discovery that even bringing together persons of good will , bringing together men and women of principle and purpose -- even accomplishing that can be difficult .
this new foundation is also based on reforms that will make our economy stronger and our businesses more competitive -- reforms that will make health care cheaper , our financial system more secure , and our government less burdened with debt .
but we 'll also do more to retrofit america for a global economy . that means updating the way we get our electricity by starting to build a new smart grid that will save us money , protect our power sources from blackout or attack , and deliver clean , alternative forms of energy to every corner of our nation .
the times are too serious ; the stakes are too high for this same partisan playbook . so let us agree that patriotism has no party . i love this country , and so do you , and so does john mccain .
cost controls like requiring insurance companies to spend at least 80 percent of the money that you pay in premiums in your actual health care costs , as opposed to administrative costs or ceo pay -- not overhead , but that money has to be spent on you . and if they don ’ t meet that target , they actually have to reimburse you . so in california , we ’ re already getting reports that insurers are giving rebates to consumers and small business owners to the tune of $ 45 million this year . so already we 're seeing millions of dollars of rebates sent back to consumers by insurance companies as a consequence of this law .
in defense of freedom , we ’ ll remain the anchor of strong alliances from the americas to africa ; from europe to asia . in the middle east , we will stand with citizens as they demand their universal rights , and support stable transitions to democracy .
but when the lives of american citizens are at risk , we will take action . that ’ s my responsibility as commander-in-chief . and when many thousands of innocent civilians are faced with the danger of being wiped out , and we have the capacity to do something about it , we will take action . that is our responsibility as americans . that ’ s a hallmark of american leadership . that ’ s who we are .
there is , however , one thing that sets you apart . here in these quiet hills , you 've come together to prepare for the most difficult test of our time . you signed up knowing your service would send you into harm 's way , and you did so long after the first drums of war were sounded . in you we see the commitment of our country , and timeless virtues that have served our nation well .
steve 's right . that 's why , tonight , i ask every american who knows someone without health insurance to help them get covered by march 31st . moms , get on your kids to sign up . kids , call your mom and walk her through the application . it will give her some peace of mind -- plus , she 'll appreciate hearing from you .
it was wrong . it was irresponsible . and it plunged our economy into a crisis that put millions out of work , saddled us with more debt , and left innocent , hardworking americans holding the bag . in the six months before i took office , we lost nearly 4 million jobs . and we lost another 4 million before our policies were in full effect .
the effort in afghanistan has been long and been difficult . and that 's why after years in which the situation had deteriorated , i announced a new strategy last december -- a military effort to break the taliban 's momentum and train afghan forces so that they can take the lead for their security ; and a civilian effort to promote good governance and development that improves the lives of the afghan people ; and deeper cooperation with pakistan to root out terrorists on both sides of the border .
and because of you , i know that once more , we will prevail . so thank you . god bless you , and god bless the united states of america . hooah ! thank you , everybody , and happy new year . thank you , everybody . god bless you .
but as we work with you to make america a better place to do business , i 'm hoping that all of you are thinking what you can do for america . ask yourselves what you can do to hire more american workers , what you can do to support the american economy and invest in this nation . that 's what i want to talk about today -- the responsibilities we all have -- the mutual responsibilities we have -- to secure the future that we all share .
and we have learned the importance of working closely with friends and allies , which is why we are launching a new era of engagement in the world the starting point for our policies must always be the safety of the american people . i know that you – the men and women of the finest fighting force in the history of the world – can meet any challenge , and defeat any foe . and as long as i am your commander-in-chief , i promise you that i will only send you into harm ’ s way when it is absolutely necessary , and provide you with the equipment and support you need to get the job done . that is the most important lesson of all – for the consequences of war are dire , the sacrifices immeasurable .
so , despite the forces of the status quo , despite the polarization and the frequent pettiness of our politics , we are confronting the great challenges of our times . and while this work isn ’ t easy , and the changes we seek won ’ t always happen overnight , what we ’ ve made clear is that this administration will not just kick the can down the road .
this week , the senate will consider a common-sense , bipartisan bill that is the best chance we ’ ve had in years to fix our broken immigration system . it will build on what we ’ ve done and continue to strengthen our borders . it will make sure that businesses and workers are all playing by the same set of rules , and it includes tough penalties for those who don ’ t . it ’ s fair for middle-class families , by making sure that those who are brought into the system pay their fair share in taxes and for services . and it ’ s fair for those who try to immigrate legally by stopping those who try to skip the line . it ’ s the right thing to do .
america is committed to a development agenda that eradicates extreme poverty by 2030. we will do our part to help people feed themselves , power their economies , and care for their sick . if the world acts together , we can make sure that all of our children enjoy lives of opportunity and dignity .
this is the wild frontier of our globalized world . there are wind-swept deserts and cave-dotted mountains . there are tribes that see borders as nothing more than lines on a map , and governments as forces that come and go . there are blood ties deeper than alliances of convenience , and pockets of extremism that follow religion to violence . it ’ s a tough place .
and the leaders of our close friends and allies deserve to know that if i want to know what they think about an issue , i ’ ll pick up the phone and call them , rather than turning to surveillance .
as commander-in-chief , i have great confidence in the men and women of our military who will carry out this mission . they carry with them the respect of a grateful nation . i 'm also proud that we are acting as part of a coalition that includes close allies and partners who are prepared to meet their responsibility to protect the people of libya and uphold the mandate of the international community .
but even as we confront immediate challenges , we must also summon the foresight to look beyond them , and consider what we are trying to build over the long term ? what is the world that awaits us when today ’ s battles are brought to an end ? and that is what i would like to talk about with the remainder of my time today .
none of this will come without cost , nor will it be easy . but this is america . we don ’ t do what ’ s easy . we do what is necessary to move this country forward .
peace requires responsibility . peace entails sacrifice . that 's why nato continues to be indispensable . that 's why we must strengthen u.n. and regional peacekeeping , and not leave the task to a few countries . that 's why we honor those who return home from peacekeeping and training abroad to oslo and rome , to ottawa and sydney , to dhaka and kigali . we honor them not as makers of war , but as -- of wagers -- but as wagers of peace .
because families like rebekah ’ s still need our help . she and ben are working as hard as ever , but they ’ ve had to forego vacations and a new car so that they can pay off student loans and save for retirement . friday night pizza , that ’ s a big splurge . basic childcare for jack and henry costs more than their mortgage , and almost as much as a year at the university of minnesota . like millions of hardworking americans , rebekah isn ’ t asking for a handout , but she is asking that we look for more ways to help families get ahead .
it was the husband who threw himself over his wife as their house came apart around them . it was the mother who shielded her young son . it was dean wells , a husband and father who loved to sing and whistle in his church choir . dean was working a shift at the home depot , managing the electrical department , when the siren rang out . he sprang into action , moving people to safety . over and over again , he went back for others , until a wall came down on top of him . in the end , most of the building was destroyed , but not where dean had directed his coworkers and his customers .
even with reinforcements , the battle was not over . another wave of rocket-propelled grenades slammed into the post . nine american soldiers were now gone . and still , the fighting raged . ryan worked the radio , helping target the air strikes that were hitting `` danger-close '' -- just yards away . and with those strikes the tide of the battle began to turn . eventually , the insurgents fell back . ryan and his fellow soldiers had held their ground .
and despite this long history of failure , i 'm standing here because i think we 're in a different time . one sign that things are different is that just this past week , the senate passed a bill that will protect children from the dangers of smoking , a reform the ama has long championed -- this organization long championed ; it went nowhere when it was proposed a decade ago -- i 'm going to sign this into law .
for almost a decade , afghanistan has been a central front of these efforts . throughout those years , you , the british people , have been a stalwart ally , along with so many others who fight by our side .
for local businesses , broadband access is helping them grow and prosper and compete in a global economy . in fact , marquette has been rated one of the top five “ ecities ” in michigan for entrepreneurship . that ’ s right .
you ’ ve proven yourselves mentally . now , i know that some think of this as just a small engineering school on the severn . you ’ ve not only met its rigorous standards , you ’ ve helped this academy earn a new distinction -- the number-one public liberal arts school in america .
that doesn ’ t mean , though , that as a nation we can ’ t do some things that i think would be productive . so let me just give a couple of specifics that i ’ m still bouncing around with my staff , so we ’ re not rolling out some five-point plan , but some areas where i think all of us could potentially focus .
but i also understand that throughout our nation ’ s history , we have balanced the threat of overreaching government against the dangers of an unfettered market . we 've provided a basic safety net , because any one of us might experience hardship at some time in our lives and may need some help getting back on our feet . and we 've recognized that there have been times when only government has been able to do what individuals could n't do and corporations would n't do .
and i know that all of you are wondering how you ’ ll do this , the challenges seem so big . they seem so difficult for one person to make a difference . but we know it can be done . because where you ’ re sitting , in this very place , in this town , it ’ s happened before .
palestinians must abandon violence . resistance through violence and killing is wrong and it does not succeed . for centuries , black people in america suffered the lash of the whip as slaves and the humiliation of segregation . but it was not violence that won full and equal rights . it was a peaceful and determined insistence upon the ideals at the center of america 's founding . this same story can be told by people from south africa to south asia ; from eastern europe to indonesia . it 's a story with a simple truth : violence is a dead end . it is a sign neither of courage nor power to shoot rockets at sleeping children , or to blow up old women on a bus . that 's not how moral authority is claimed ; that 's how it is surrendered .
that spring , he went further -- he held an easter service . i just met with the kapaun family . they showed me something extraordinary -- the actual stole , the purple vestment that father kapaun wore when he celebrated mass inside that prison camp .
that 's number one number two , let ’ s not just sell more things to each other , let ’ s build more things together . with many of our companies operating in both countries , parts are now being shipped back and forth across the border as they ’ re assembled . so every day , u.s. and mexican workers are building things together -- whether it ’ s crafts -- or whether it ’ s cars , or aircraft , or computers , or satellites .
but elena is respected and admired not just for her intellect and record of achievement , but also for her temperament -- her openness to a broad array of viewpoints ; her habit , to borrow a phrase from justice stevens , “ of understanding before disagreeing ” ; her fair-mindedness and skill as a consensus-builder .
from einstein to brandeis , from jonas salk to betty friedan , american jews have made contributions to this country that have shaped it in every aspect . and as a community , american jews have helped make our union more perfect . the story of exodus inspired oppressed people around the world in their own struggles for civil rights . from the founding members of the naacp to a freedom summer in mississippi , from women ’ s rights to gay rights to workers ' rights , jews took the heart of biblical edict that we must not oppress a stranger , having been strangers once ourselves .
as part of our effort on non-proliferation , i offered the islamic republic of iran an extended hand last year , and underscored that it has both rights and responsibilities as a member of the international community . i also said -- in this hall -- that iran must be held accountable if it failed to meet those responsibilities . and that is what we have done .
will we approach the world fearful and reactive , dragged into costly conflicts that strain our military and set back our standing ? or will we lead wisely , using all elements of our power to defeat new threats and protect our planet ?
that doesn ’ t make sense . i believe as strongly as ever that we should take on illegal immigration . that ’ s why my administration has put more boots on the border than ever before . that ’ s why there are fewer illegal crossings than when i took office . the opponents of action are out of excuses . we should be working on comprehensive immigration reform right now .
the iranian government can not demonstrate that its program is peaceful . it has not met its obligations and it rejects offers that would provide it with peaceful nuclear power . north korea has yet to take concrete steps towards abandoning its weapons and continues belligerent action against the south . there 's a future of greater opportunity for the people of these nations if their governments meet their international obligations . but if they continue down a path that is outside international law , they must be met with greater pressure and isolation . that is what our commitment to peace and security demands .
on my first visit , just months after taking office , i stood here and i said that this agency and our entire intelligence community is fundamental to america ’ s national security . i said that i believed that your best days were still to come and i pledged that you would have my full support to carry out your critical work .
and that 's what we intend to do if we do that , we can build a health care system that allows you to be physicians instead of administrators and accountants ; a system that gives americans -- a system that gives americans the best care at the lowest cost ; a system that eases up the pressure on businesses and unleashes the promise of our economy , creating hundreds of thousands of jobs , making take-home wages thousands of dollars higher , and growing our economy by tens of billions of dollars more every year . that 's how we 'll stop spending tax dollars to prop up an unsustainable system , and start investing those dollars in innovations and advances that will make our health care system and our economy stronger .
and unless everybody does their part , many of the insurance reforms we seek -- especially requiring insurance companies to cover preexisting conditions -- just ca n't be achieved and that 's why under my plan , individuals will be required to carry basic health insurance -- just as most states require you to carry auto insurance . likewise -- likewise , businesses will be required to either offer their workers health care , or chip in to help cover the cost of their workers . there will be a hardship waiver for those individuals who still ca n't afford coverage , and 95 percent of all small businesses , because of their size and narrow profit margin , would be exempt from these requirements . but we ca n't have large businesses and individuals who can afford coverage game the system by avoiding responsibility to themselves or their employees . improving our health care system only works if everybody does their part .
and that ’ s what the young people here today and listening all across the country must take away from this day . you are america . unconstrained by habit and convention . unencumbered by what is , because you ’ re ready to seize what ought to be .
today , we have more boots on the ground near the southwest border than at any time in our history . let me repeat that : we have more boots on the ground on the southwest border than at any time in our history . we doubled the personnel assigned to border enforcement security task forces . we tripled the number of intelligence analysts along the border . for the first time , we ’ ve begun screening 100 percent of southbound rail shipments . and as a result , we ’ re seizing more illegal guns , cash and drugs than in years past . contrary to some of the reports that you see , crime along the border is down . and statistics collected by customs and border protection reflect a significant reduction in the number of people trying to cross the border illegally .
and right now , those structures are not in place and that ’ s why the issue with respect to syria is not simply a military issue , it ’ s also a political issue . it ’ s also an issue that involves all the sunni states in the region and sunni leadership recognizing that this cancer that has developed is one that they have to be just as invested in defeating as we are .
i know what reform will mean for people like laura klitzka . i met laura up in green bay , wisconsin , while i was campaigning . she thought she had beaten her breast cancer . then she discovered it had spread to her bones . and she and her insurance -- she and her husband , they were lucky enough to have insurance , but their medical bills still landed them in debt . so now she ’ s spending time worrying about the debt when all she wants to do is think about how she can spend time with her two kids . laura needs us to pass this reform bill .
that ought to compel washington to cooperate . that ought to compel washington to compromise , and it ought to compel washington to act . that ought to be enough to get all of us in this town to do the jobs we were sent here to do .
so my message to the governors and the mayors and , through them , to the communities that have been hit so hard is that we are going to do everything we can to get resources to you and make sure that any unmet need that is identified , we are responding to it as quickly as possible . and i told the mayors and the governors if they 're getting no for an answer somewhere in the federal government , they can call me personally at the white house .
may god hold close the souls taken from us and grant them eternal peace . may he comfort and watch over these families . and may god grant us the strength and the wisdom to keep safe our united states of america .
the second thing i want to say is to reiterate what i said on sunday , which is there ’ s going to be a lot of arguments about the legal issues in the case -- i 'll let all the legal analysts and talking heads address those issues . the judge conducted the trial in a professional manner . the prosecution and the defense made their arguments . the juries were properly instructed that in a case such as this reasonable doubt was relevant , and they rendered a verdict . and once the jury has spoken , that 's how our system works . but i did want to just talk a little bit about context and how people have responded to it and how people are feeling .
again , we chose to act , and again , we rose together . today , at the beginning of this young century , we have to decide again . but this time , it is your turn to choose .
thank you very much , mr. president . today , we mourn the passing of coretta scott king . and when i think about coretta scott king , i think about the little girl who walked five miles to school on those rural alabama roads and felt the heat of racism each day she passed the door of the whites-only school , so much closer to home . it did n't matter , because she studied and succeeded and excelled beyond most of her classmates , black and white . she earned a college degree , and an acceptance to a prestigious graduate school up north .
i have also asked my counselor , john podesta , to lead a comprehensive review of big data and privacy . and this group will consist of government officials who , along with the president ’ s council of advisors on science and technology , will reach out to privacy experts , technologists and business leaders , and look how the challenges inherent in big data are being confronted by both the public and private sectors ; whether we can forge international norms on how to manage this data ; and how we can continue to promote the free flow of information in ways that are consistent with both privacy and security .
now , the third pillar of this new foundation is to harness the renewable energy that can create millions of new jobs and new industries . we all know that the country that harnesses this new energy source will lead the 21st century . yet we 've allowed other countries to outpace us on this race to the future . i do n't know about you , but i do not accept a future where the jobs and industries of tomorrow take root beyond our borders . i think it 's time for america to lead again .
thank you so much . good afternoon . i am honored to be in the timeless city of cairo , and to be hosted by two remarkable institutions . for over a thousand years , al-azhar has stood as a beacon of islamic learning ; and for over a century , cairo university has been a source of egypt 's advancement . and together , you represent the harmony between tradition and progress . i 'm grateful for your hospitality and the hospitality of the people of egypt . and i 'm also proud to carry with me the goodwill of the american people , and a greeting of peace from muslim communities in my country : assalaamu alaykum [ peace be upon you ] .
but i also know the feeling that one author described when she wrote that “ to have a child…is to decide forever to have your heart go walking around outside your body. ” think about that -- to have a child is to have your heart walking around outside your body .
through tax credits , grants and better loans , we ’ ve made college more affordable for millions of students and families over the last few years . but taxpayers can ’ t keep on subsidizing higher and higher and higher costs for higher education . colleges must do their part to keep costs down , and it ’ s our job to make sure that they do .
so we have a system in which some information is classified , and we have a system of checks and balances to make sure that it ’ s not abused . and if , in fact , this information ends up just being dumped out willy-nilly without regard to risks to the program , risks to the people involved -- in some cases , on other leaks , risks to personnel in a very dangerous situation -- then it ’ s very hard for us to be as effective in protecting the american people .
every day , elected officials like those on this stage , but also all across the nation , devote themselves to improving our communities and our country . but all too often we ’ ve seen a politics where compromise is rejected as a dirty word , and policies are driven by special interests rather than the national interest . and that breeds a cynicism that threatens our democracy .
thank you . and now i 'm going to let the vice president go and i 'm going to take a few questions . and i will start with ben feller . q thank you , mr. president . i 'd like to ask you about the other serious issue consuming this town right now , the fiscal cliff .
first , we 're proposing a series of steps to help small businesses grow and hire new staff . over the past 15 years , small businesses have created roughly 65 percent of all new jobs in america . these are companies formed around kitchen tables in family meetings , formed when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream , formed when a worker decides it 's time she became her own boss . these are also companies that drive innovation , producing 13 times more patents per employee than large companies . and it 's worth remembering , every once in a while a small business becomes a big business -- and changes the world .
so i know that some of you are still adjusting to being back at school . but i 'm here today because i have something important to discuss with you . i 'm here because i want to talk with you about your education and what 's expected of all of you in this new school year .
now , some of this contentiousness can be attributed to the incredibly difficult moment in which we find ourselves as a nation . the fact is , when you leave here today you will search for work in an economy that is still emerging from the worst crisis since the great depression . you live in a century where the speed with which jobs and industries move across the globe is forcing america to compete like never before . you will raise your children at a time when threats like terrorism and climate change aren ’ t confined within the borders of any one country . and as our world grows smaller and more connected , you will live and work with more people who don ’ t look like you or think like you or come from where you do .
i know that creating such a system poses unique challenges . and other countries have grappled with this question ; now , so must we . but i want to be very clear that our goal is to construct a legitimate legal framework for the remaining guantanamo detainees that can not be transferred . our goal is not to avoid a legitimate legal framework . in our constitutional system , prolonged detention should not be the decision of any one man . if and when we determine that the united states must hold individuals to keep them from carrying out an act of war , we will do so within a system that involves judicial and congressional oversight . and so , going forward , my administration will work with congress to develop an appropriate legal regime so that our efforts are consistent with our values and our constitution .
and that ’ s why i ’ ve made community colleges a centerpiece of my education agenda , along with helping more students afford college . i couldn ’ t be prouder of the work we ’ ve done in community colleges .
so there ’ s a lot of catching up to do . the good news is , though , countries that are still at those early stages of development , they can grow very fast because there ’ s so much pent-up energy and opportunity . and i think the most important thing is going to be establishing rule of law and systems and practices where if you start a business , you can feel confident that you don ’ t have to pay 100 bribes and you don ’ t have to hire somebody ’ s son , and that you can make a profit ; that if there ’ s a foreign investor , that they can invest and be treated fairly , and that their rights and their intellectual property and their property are protected .
and i just want to point out this was a central question during the election . it was debated over and over again . and on tuesday night , we found out that the majority of americans agree with my approach -- and that includes democrats , independents , and a lot of republicans across the country , as well as independent economists and budget experts . that ’ s how you reduce the deficit -- with a balanced approach .
so here ’ s what each of you must know . because of your service , because of your sacrifices , we ’ re making progress in afghanistan . in some of the toughest parts of the country , general campbell and the 101st are taking insurgents and their leaders off the battlefield and helping afghans reclaim their communities .
by refusing to end the war in iraq , president bush is giving the terrorists what they really want , and what the congress voted to give them in 2002 : a u.s. occupation of undetermined length , at undetermined cost , with undetermined consequences .
i believe that american businesses should not be put at a disadvantage , and that increased commerce is good for americans and for cubans . so we will facilitate authorized transactions between the united states and cuba . u.s. financial institutions will be allowed to open accounts at cuban financial institutions . and it will be easier for u.s. exporters to sell goods in cuba .
despite what some have suggested , the reason we have these spiraling costs is not simply because we 've got an aging population ; demographics do account for part of rising costs because older , sicker societies pay more on health care than younger , healthier ones , and there 's nothing intrinsically wrong in us taking better care of ourselves . but what accounts for the bulk of our costs is the nature of our health care delivery system itself -- a system where we spend vast amounts of money on things that are n't necessarily making our people any healthier ; a system that automatically equates more expensive care with better care .
we ca n't accept this . as americans bound in grief and love , we must insist here today there is nothing normal about innocent men and women being gunned down where they work . there is nothing normal about our children being gunned down in their classrooms . there is nothing normal about children dying in our streets from stray bullets .
president obama : i 'm about to address it , ma'am , but you 've got to let me speak . i 'm about to address it . audience member : you 're our commander-in-chief --
so to sum up , the united states is moving forward from a position of strength . the long war in iraq will come to an end by the end of this year . the transition in afghanistan is moving forward , and our troops are finally coming home . as they do , fewer deployments and more time training will help keep our military the very best in the world . and as we welcome home our newest veterans , we ’ ll never stop working to give them and their families the care , the benefits and the opportunities that they have earned .
