he loves the rifle stuff . this is serious rifle . this is serious nra , both of them , both of them . we love the second amendment folks . nobody loves it more than us , so just remember that .
but i don ’ t want this . it ’ s not going to happen . then they ’ re make — they ’ re going to make product and they ’ re going to sell it into the united states ? not going to happen . it ’ s not going to happen . and by the way , i ’ m a free trader . i believe — we ’ ve got to be smart . i mean , we ’ ve got to get something . we don ’ t get anything out of anything . we don ’ t get anything .
but i do believe , while she did n't pay the price she should have paid , she 's going to pay that price when november 8th rolls around . she 's going to pay it at the polls . i believe that .
so anyways , i wish him the best . but , you know , i started and i started at like 2 % or 3 % and then it went to 6 % and then it went to 9 % . and each time the pundits – these real geniuses back here – some of them are sitting back here – these real geniuses like george will with the little glasses – take away the glasses . he looks like a dumb guy , i ’ m telling you .
it 's also rated aaa , their bonds are rated aaa . very few states have that . aaa . the best . that 's as good as you can get , whether you 're a company , a state , aaa .
we ’ re not going to let carrier make air conditioners , fire all of its people , move to mexico , make the air conditioners then come in and take the money out of the country . it ’ s not going to happen anymore .
so i ’ m not taking money from anybody . i ’ m self-funding my campaign . and we ’ re going to get it . we ’ re going to get it . now , i look at this u.s. manufacturing – i mean , just look at this . look at these charts . i mean , you can see them ... this is where we ’ re going .
but i signed the pledge , too . and everybody wanted to sign the pledge . and the reason they signed the pledge was to get me to sign it . i signed it . i would have honored it .
that is a big one . but you do n't see crowds like this . we have crowds like this everywhere , no matter where we go . and every time i go home and my wife says how was the crowd .
look at what ’ s happening in germany . it ’ s a mess . look at sweden . look at brussels . i mean , brussels , you go there 20 years ago , 15 years ago it was incredible .
and don ’ t worry , they never pan the crowd . you know , they never ; they have me . that ’ s why i ’ m walking around . i figured i ’ ll walk around maybe they ’ ll get the crowd . they never pan the crowd . i tell them `` pan the crowd '' , they never do .
but i ’ ve seen it . i saw it with the romney campaign . guys made tens of millions of dollars raising money for romney . i said what the hell is this ? i mean , you give money and they get a cut .
we have some of the greatest negotiators , maybe the greatest in the world and we do n't use them . we use political hacks . we have people in there that got in for politics .
and this is my wheelhouse . that ’ s what i do well . the economy is what i do well . whenever they do polls , i always come out way above everybody else on the economy and on leadership , by the way , but i won ’ t say that .
i can ’ t help it , honey , whether i ’ m celebrity . i mean , this is me . look , i think most people say i did a great job in iowa . i came in second . i spent far less than anybody else . and had i known that i was going to be liked as much as i am in iowa and people did like me – you will understand that – i would have maybe spent a little bit more and i would have been there a little bit more and maybe i would have won it . but , you know , i ’ m very happy with it . i have 7 delegates right at the top .
it ’ s really been — it ’ s really been great . i want to congratulation ted on the winning of texas . he worked hard on he — i know how hard he worked actually , and so i congratulate ted cruz on that win . that was an excellent win .
we have to look to new people because many of the old people frankly don ’ t know what they ’ re doing , even though they may look awfully good writing in the new york times or being watched on television .
on economic policy , america first means having tax and regulatory policies that keep jobs and wealth in the united states , substantially lowering taxes for middle class americans and business ; likewise , regulation which is strangling our economy which would be brought down from its present insane level . we will make it very , very good for our companies , for our small business and for people that want to survive and do well in our country .
incredible family . highly respected . expected to go for another four years . he would have won , i think , very easily in indiana . indiana , their unemployment rate has fallen , when he was there , when he started , 8.4 percent when he was governor , when he took over , to less than 5 percent in may of 2016. since january 2013 , indiana 's labor force has increased by more than 186,000 jobs . you have to understand , i 've gone around to all these states . i 've gone to all of them . and every time , i have statisticians . i say give me the stats on a state .
but you know , a lot of people , they ’ ll pick up the phone and they ’ ll hear different things and they ’ ll say , `` uh , no i ’ ll vote for – `` and then they ’ d get in the booth and they say , `` trump is my man . '' there are a lot of people saying that we ’ re going to do a lot better . but we ’ ll see because feb. 1st you have to get to caucus , you have to go out . you ’ ve got to do it . otherwise , we ’ ve all wasted our time .
i mean , if you ’ re a poker player and you ’ re predictable , you ’ re not going home with much money . okay ? but it was really – i said , `` that ’ s not nice what he said . '' first , i said `` that ’ s not nice . i ’ m unpredictable . '' then i said , `` wait a minute . he meant that as a compliment . '' and i called him . i said , `` what did you mean by that ? '' he said `` i think that ’ s the greatest compliment i can pay . we could not figure you out . you came at us from 15 different angles . ''
i think i ’ m going to win the hispanic vote . i predict , yeah , i think i ’ m going to get the nomination and i will win the white house . i think beating hillary clinton is going to be easy because her record is so bad .
now , [ bill ] kristol ’ s the one that ’ s – but he ’ s the last one . don ’ t forget , he said `` trump will never run . '' the guy ’ s not a smart person . he said , `` donald trump would never run . '' remember ?
nobody even talked about the word he used and this is the ultimate word . but he was angry at the concept of somebody saying that they were going to pay for the wall . mexico is going to pay for the wall .
they don ’ t do that . they have the cameras right in my face . i say fan the crowd just to show – look at all the people over here . it ’ s a record in the history of this ship .
and iran ’ s going to take over iraq as sure as you ’ re sitting there . and by the way , iraq , with the second largest oil reserves anywhere in the world . we lost of thousands of lives . we have wounded warriors all over the place . $ 2 trillion . we have nothing . we got nothing . we have absolutely nothing . and we left .
florida leading by a lot – 31 % , 19 % , 13 % , and then all down in the dumps . georgia just came out . i have 33 % . yeah , don ’ t forget that ’ s 33 % . hard to believe . that ’ s with 14 people , 15 people . i don ’ t know when they took it but it was recent . 33 % .
did you see any change in her face ? [ audience response inaudible ] ... it ’ s horrible . it ’ s horrible . honestly , it ’ s horrible . and the best thing i could do is say – but i can ’ t destroy a man . i ’ d destroy him . got a beautiful wife and children and i ’ m not going to destroy a man for that .
trillions of our dollars and millions of our jobs flowed overseas as a result . i have visited cities and towns across this country where a third or even half of manufacturing jobs have been wiped out in the last 20 years .
now he 's saying we 'll never pay for the wall . so we made progress . add least he 's now admitting it is going to get built , right . and he seems like a nice guy but he got a little bit rough .
listen , we are going to do things that are going to make you so proud if i win . we are going to have victories again . we are going to win . in fact , last night in front of the audience and i ’ ve never said this before . last night in front of the audience i said we ’ re going to have so many victories .
slightly large , actually . in fact , i buy a slightly smaller than large glove , okay ? no , but i did this because everybody was saying to me , `` oh , your hands are very nice .
i said , `` don ’ t go into iraq '' even though i ’ m a very militaristic person . i said `` don ’ t go into iraq '' and they shouldn ’ t have because i said you ’ re going to destabilize the middle east . so what did we get – $ 2 trillion . thousands of deaths . thousands . like 5,000. wounded warriors who i love all over the place .
you know that . you saw it . he was there . this guy follows me around , i ’ ll tell you . but you were there . remember , he was going to win that in a landslide . and then i started speaking . i started talking to people , and i started saying the good and the bad and the ugly .
indiana was recently recognized by chief executive magazine as the number-one state in the midwest for business . number one . and it 's not even close . there are approximately 34,000 fewer hoosiers on unemployment insurance now than there were when mike pence took office . so you have fewer hoosiers , fewer people from indiana .
now they ’ re going militarily . they ’ re building a military island in the middle of the south china sea . a military island . now , our country could never do that because we ’ d have to get environmental clearance , and the environmentalist wouldn ’ t let our country — we would never build in an ocean . they built it in about one year , this massive military port .
but if you think about that question . so you know there ’ s tremendous pressure to get rid of the guns , get rid of the magazines , no bullets . how about the one where they have three bullets in every magazine ? ... so the people will put three bullets in . i don ’ t think the bad guys are going to say , `` well , i don ’ t want to break the law . i ’ m going to go kill people today but i ’ m going to put three bullets in . '' right ?
and we have a president that won ’ t even mention the term and you ’ re talking about numbers like this . mr. trump stated without looking at the various polling data , it ’ s obvious to anybody the hatred is beyond comprehension…
we don ’ t make good deals anymore . we don ’ t win anymore . as a country , we don ’ t win anymore . and they asked , `` is there anger from your people ? '' ... they ’ re not angry people but they want to see the country properly run . they want to see borders . they want to see good health care . they want to see things properly taken care of . they want our military rebuilt . our military is in a very bad state . they want it rebuilt . very , very importantly , and they want the second amendment by the way protected and protected strongly and that ’ s going to happen .
i ’ ve been talking about this for two years . yesterday , the wall street journal , they announced they ’ re building it bigger . in another words , they ’ re doubling down . you know why ? nobody does anything about it . i ’ m going to do something about it .
well , walls work . all you have to do is ask israel . walls work if it ’ s properly constructed . not the walls that these characters , these politicians that we have running our country who are a disgrace – all talk , no action politicians – they build a wall this big , they drive cars right through it .
that is what we want to do . because we want to keep our majority . we want to keep our house . we want to keep our senate . because i 'll tell you what , if we can do that , and we have trump as president , we are going to be able to do things that are going to be so great for our country .
don ’ t forget if i didn ’ t bring up the subject of illegal immigration , you wouldn ’ t be asking the question . nobody would be even talking about immigration . and immigration and in particular illegal immigration has become a very big factor .
so we ’ re doing great . and i think we close it out before the convention . i think we actually close it out before the convention . and that ’ s like a prizefighter . you know , they go into unfriendly territory , and the champ , he goes in . and they say , `` what do you think ? you may have an unfriendly decision . '' he says , `` no , when you knock them out , there ’ s no unfriendly decision . ''
you do n't need that . they do n't need money . they 're making plenty of money . but we wo n't let them just take our companies out and fire everybody . these are people with carrier for many , many years .
you know , it ’ s funny . these guys all want the keystone pipeline . right ? everyone . conservatives . conservatives want the keystone pipeline . i like the keystone pipeline too . but they have a whole big thing on eminent domain in their prospectus because without eminent domain , they wouldn ’ t go 15 feet . they wouldn ’ t be able to build it .
and then i see a few guys standing out there . they don ’ t even know what they ’ re there for . they have no idea . they ’ re there because hillary clinton ’ s campaign sent them .
we ’ ve got to maybe do something with the internet because they are recruiting by the thousands . they ’ re leaving our country . and then when they come back , we take them back . `` oh , come on back . where were you ? '' `` i was fighting for isis . '' `` oh , come on back . go home . enjoy yourself . ''
and we ’ re not going to make deals like that anymore . we can ’ t . we owe $ 19 trillion . we can ’ t . so the establishment is not ever probably – look , you know what ? in the end , if this country starts humming even the establishment they ’ ll be saying `` okay , it ’ s a good thing '' because they ’ ll be beneficiaries also .
but i always said keep the oil . but we did n't keep the oil . so who has the oil right now ? a lot of the oil is had by isis . and we created isis .
we started , i was one of 17 people – senators , governors . i ’ ve had such great support . dr. ben carson the other day endorsed us . great guy . great guy . wonderful man . and chris christie endorsed us . that was so incredible .
how does this kind of immigration make our life better ? how does this kind of immigration make our country better ? why does hillary clinton want to bring people here—in vast numbers—who reject our values ?
so we have a very , very dynamic party and i think we ’ re going to be able to unify the party . i hope to be able to get along with everybody . i don ’ t know paul ryan well but i hope to be able to get along with him . i do know mitch mcconnell a little bit but i hope to be able to get along with him . but remember this . i have millions and millions and millions of people . this isn ’ t like it ’ s a close match . i mean , it ’ s only too bad that winner didn ’ t take all , because if winner took all , this thing is over . we ’ re just having a celebration .
one of the most heavily sought after buildings in the history of the general services administration , which owned it . you know , they ’ re the ones that made the decision . and i got it and we ’ re building this phenomenal hotel – trump international hotel – right on pennsylvania avenue directly between congress and the white house . right ? it ’ s going to open just in time – and by the way , listen to this one . we ’ re under budget and ahead of schedule . do you ever hear that from government ? way under budget .
and companies are actually leaving our country to get their money , not only because our taxes are too high , which we ’ re going to lower by the way . but companies are leaving our country in order to go and get money that ’ s their money because there ’ s no way of bringing it in .
i won ’ t go over all of the different things because maybe you ’ ll change your minds . but they ’ d say , `` that ’ s it . it ’ s over . ''
we have a president right now that doesn ’ t have energy . i mean , you think obama has energy ? he has no energy . and he ’ s been a horrible president .
eugene washington , a man i like actually , wrote an article said there were 5,000 people there . there were many times that . and you weren ’ t allowed to have any more people .
i know how to fix it . because i am in favor of free trade . a lot of people say i 'm an isolationist , when you lose $ 800 billion a year on trade deficits , maybe that is not the worse thing .
for every case known to the public , there are dozens and dozens more . we must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies . we have no idea where these people are coming from .
but let me just tell you we lose so much money with mexico in terms of trade imbalance – $ 45 billion last year . plus , we give mexico billions and billions of dollars . they will pay for the wall . and it will be very interesting .
you know what ? i took a lot of heat and then you had kate in san francisco , killed , shot in the back and so many others . and people started looking .
i 'm not a cutter of social security ; i want to make the country rich so that social security can be afforded , and medicare and medicaid . get rid of the waste , get rid of the fraud , but you deserve your social security ; you 've been paying your security .
so i just tell you this , we have a candidate on the other side who , if she ever gets elected , it will be four more disgusting years of obama , it will be four more years of weakness , it will be four more years of civil unrest .
no , but i ’ d love to finish first . wouldn ’ t horrible but you know it wouldn ’ t be the worst thing in the world . i could think of worse things . but i ’ d like to finish first . i think we will finish first . i ’ d like to finish first .
so we have to rebuild quickly our infrastructure of this country . if we do n't -- the other day in ohio a bridge collapsed . bridges are collapsing all over the country . the reports on bridges and the like are unbelievable , what 's happening with our infrastructure .
we lose money with everything . i ’ m also going to renegotiate some of our military costs . because we protect south korea , we protect germany , we protect some of the wealthiest countries in the world – saudi arabia – we protect everybody . we protect everybody .
they have it set . do n't forget another thing . china became the number one economic power a year ago . that was unthinkable ; to think that that was going to happen . it was absolutely unthinkable .
and he could do it from like washington . in fact , he could do it in my new hotel that i ’ m buying which is only a couple of blocks . …it ’ s true . i ’ m building this incredible hotel on pennsylvania avenue and it ’ s going to be incredible . the old post office . and i actually got it from the obama administration , which is hard to believe . people say `` what ’ s going on ? how did trump get it ? ''
and it ’ s tremendous , tremendous amounts of money were spent – millions and millions of dollars . and they were comparing it . they think it was probably $ 8 million was spent against me and we spent $ 900,000 . so , i mean , to me that ’ s the way it ’ s supposed to be . that ’ s something that makes me feel really , really very good .
so we write about it in the book . we tell lots of different stories of lots of different things . and i think it ’ s going to be very instructional , very important .
now , jeb bush also just went down in the monmouth poll very big . so i don ’ t know . are they going to spend – he ’ s going to spend lobbyist money and special interest money . remember this – they have total control over jeb and hillary and everybody else that takes that money .
i would have made – poor jeb bush , i mean , this poor guy with his low energy . it ’ s sad . no , it ’ s sad . i came up with that term , it became so defining . it ’ s like having it on his forehead `` i am low energy '' . no , no , it ’ s sad .
i am going to give a major speech on probably monday of next week , and we ’ re going to be discussing all of the things that have taken place with the clintons . i think you ’ re going to find it very informative and very , very interesting .
by the way , speaking of it , we ’ re going to make our military so strong , so powerful , so great , nobody ’ s ever going to mess with us again . nobody . they ’ re never going to mess with us .
if we get the delegates , we ’ ve pulled out a knock-out . and that ’ s the way it ’ s going to be , and i can see that happening because more and more people are calling , they want to get on board .
she can ’ t have it both ways . she can ’ t claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppress them .
look at his plans on his trump website . he talks about medical cards . he talks about fixing the va. he talks about competition . i think the liberal media and i ’ ve been dealing with you a long time . you need to get your head out of your butt . focus on the real issues .
our country is in serious trouble . we don ’ t have victories anymore . we used to have victories , but we don ’ t have them . when was the last time anybody saw us beating , let ’ s say , china in a trade deal ? they kill us . i beat china all the time . all the time .
he used it on live television . and i said , oh , i feel so badly for the guy . and now in one way i was happy . because he used to say , we 'll never build the wall .
and i have a great relationship , as you know from telemundo , with the hispanics . you ’ ve treated me actually very fairly . won the poll recently in nevada . won other polls . and in nevada , i think i got 37 % and leading everybody .
but i will tell you mexico has got to help us . you know , if you want to become a citizen of mexico…do you know it ’ s one of the hardest countries in the world to become a citizen of ? and yet , people pour right through into us , into us . they call us the dumb americans . that ’ s what they call us because of our leaders . they call us the dumb americans .
you know , china does not obey the rules . now , i get along great with china . i made a fortune dealing with china . i have two buildings because of china . big ones in new york and one in san francisco – bank of america – that i have in partnership with a great company . and it ’ s because of china . i sell – i have one of the big leases with one of their big banks – with the biggest bank in the world actually from china .
i will use this power to protect the american people . when i am elected , i will suspend immigration from areas of the world when there is a proven history of terrorism against the united states , europe or our allies , until we understand how to end these threats .
and , you know , when she said that , i had no choice , because i didn ’ t start it . i had no choice . and i did have to mention her husband ’ s situation . ok ?
i lead -- i lead with the hispanics . i 'm leading in every poll with the hispanics . they love me , i love them . the problem is -- the problem is that the leaders of these countries whether it 's mexico or japan or viet nam which is just doing a big number now all of a sudden or china in particular -- that 's the big one . the greatest abuse of a country that i think i 've ever seen financially -- china .
'' now , the press was there . they saw it . nobody said it was a lie . it was a total lie . in fact , i had more people at the end than i had at the beginning .
so let ’ s start with china . almost $ 400 billion a year . now , if you have a company where you ’ re losing $ 400 billion , you ’ ve got to do something very fast .
we ’ ve got a lot of problems . we ’ ve got a lot of problems . that ’ s right , we don ’ t win anymore . he said we want to win . we don ’ t win anymore . we ’ re going to win a lot — if i get elected , we ’ re going to win a lot .
but one of the very smart one says `` if trump wins iowa , it ’ s over . '' it ’ s interesting because it will go right through because everywhere else is so great .
no , no , it ’ s true . and then — and then — and that was it . and so i responded . so , he asked me a question , question was fine . you know , professionally written . so , he asked me a question , good . i give him an answer , i blow him away . right . everyone says trump won the debate . everybody . and hat is it . so , the ad is him asking the question and i ’ m standing there like this , because i haven ’ t — in fact , you see in one of them , i ’ m just about ready to open my mouth .
we have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with or supporting radical groups and beliefs , very simple . we have to control the amount of future immigration into this country and we have to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside america . not complicated .
thank you . thank you very much , everybody . appreciate it . thank you . good evening . thank you very much . i speak to you today as a lifelong supporter and true friend of israel . i am a newcomer to politics but not to backing the jewish state .
autism has become an epidemic . 25 years ago , 35 years ago , you look at the statistics . not even close . it has gotten totally out of control . i am totally in favor of vaccines but i want smaller doses over a longer period of time .
but they are not blue-collar . we have blue-collar and we have executives and we have young people . they say the audience is old . it ’ s not older . the audience is young . the other night in iowa , i told that , and i said , we have so many young people and the place erupted . they are all young people . we have an amazing thing happening , it ’ s just ...
they have no power . if we ever say , `` listen , if you ’ re not going to treat us fairly , we don ’ t want your cars anymore '' , they ’ d go out of business , folks , they ’ re gone .
that will be the foundation of every single decision that i will make . america first will be the major and overriding theme of my administration . but to chart our path forward , we must first briefly take a look back . we have a lot to be proud of .
but they say the people are with – we have the most loyal people by far . everybody says it . the other thing they say is for leadership , number one . very important , right ? don ’ t you think ? leadership .
`` but you ’ d go to new hampshire . you ’ d go to south carolina . you go to nevada . you go to the scc . '' i said i can ’ t do that because i have such an unbelievable relationship with the people from iowa that i think we ’ re going to win . i really do . i believe it . i believe it .
so we ’ ll be going there . i must say this tremendous run that we ’ ve had started with new york when we had almost 62 % . and don ’ t forget , that ’ s with three people . so 62 % with two people is a massive landslide . but 63 % almost – just a little over 62 % – when you have that kind of a number with three people , it ’ s actually unheard of .
