i have confidence you will choose that path ; you will embrace that task . and to those who choose the path of peace , i promise you the united states of america will support you every step of the way . we will always be a wind at your back . and as i said when i visited two years ago , i am convinced that this little island that inspires the biggest of things -- this little island , its best days are yet ahead .
and over time , as codes of law sought to control violence within groups , so did philosophers and clerics and statesmen seek to regulate the destructive power of war . the concept of a `` just war '' emerged , suggesting that war is justified only when certain conditions were met : if it is waged as a last resort or in self-defense ; if the force used is proportional ; and if , whenever possible , civilians are spared from violence .
likewise , when indians vote , the whole world watches . thousands of political parties ; hundreds of thousands of polling centers ; millions of candidates and poll workers -- and 700 million voters . there ’ s nothing like it on the planet . there is so much that countries transitioning to democracy could learn from india ’ s experience , so much expertise that india can share with the world . and that , too , is what is possible when the world ’ s largest democracy embraces its role as a global leader .
this same message , by the way , has been delivered by the european union , the arab league , the african union , the organization of the islamic conference , and many individual nations . north and south , east and west , voices are being raised together to oppose suppression and support the rights of the libyan people .
they hadn ’ t traveled a quarter mile before the silence was shattered . it was an ambush , so close that the cracks of the guns and the whizz of the bullets were simultaneous . tracer fire hammered the ridge at hundreds of rounds per minute -- “ more , ” sal said later , “ than the stars in the sky . ”
it ’ s a moment of transformation that ’ s taking place because the people of egypt are calling for change . and they ’ ve turned out in extraordinary numbers representing all ages and all walks of life , but it ’ s young people who ’ ve been at the forefront -- a new generation , your generation , who want their voices to be heard .
our freedom of religion is written into our founding documents . it 's part of america 's very first amendment . your article 25 says that all people are `` equally entitled to freedom of conscience and the right freely to profess , practice and propagate religion . '' in both our countries -- in all countries -- upholding this fundamental freedom is the responsibility of government , but it 's also the responsibility of every person .
even before this week ’ s operation , we ’ ve put al qaeda ’ s leadership under more pressure than at any time since 9/11 , on both sides of the border . so the bottom line is this : our strategy is working , and there ’ s no greater evidence of that than justice finally being delivered to osama bin laden .
i have the great pleasure of having a really nice library at the white house . and i was tooling through some of the writings of some previous presidents and i came upon this quote by abraham lincoln : “ i am not bound to win , but i ’ m bound to be true . i ’ m not bound to succeed , but i ’ m bound to live up to what light i have . ”
first , iran will not be able to pursue a bomb using plutonium , because it will not develop weapons-grade plutonium . the core of its reactor at arak will be dismantled and replaced . the spent fuel from that facility will be shipped out of iran for the life of the reactor . iran will not build a new heavy-water reactor . and iran will not reprocess fuel from its existing reactors -- ever .
you taught us about resolve . invasion turned to insurgency and then sectarian strife . but you persevered , tour after tour , year after year . indeed , we 're mindful that even as we gather here , iraq veterans continue to risk their lives in afghanistan , and our prayers are with them all tonight .
immigration reform is no exception . in recent days , the issue of immigration has become once more a source of fresh contention in our country , with the passage of a controversial law in arizona and the heated reactions we ’ ve seen across america . some have rallied behind this new policy . others have protested and launched boycotts of the state . and everywhere , people have expressed frustration with a system that seems fundamentally broken .
my starting point is not to worry about the politics ; my starting point is to focus on what makes sense , what works ; what should we be doing to make sure that our children are safe and that we ’ re reducing the incidents of gun violence . and i think we can do that in a sensible way that comports with the second amendment .
most of all , let 's be the generation that never forgets what happened on that september day and confront the terrorists with everything we 've got . politics does n't have to divide us on this anymore ; we can work together to keep our country safe . i 've worked with the republican senator dick lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroy some of the world 's deadliest weapons . we can work together to track down terrorists with a stronger military . we can tighten the net around their finances . we can improve our intelligence capabilities and finally get homeland security right . but let 's also understand that ultimate victory against our enemies will only come by rebuilding our alliances and exporting those ideals that bring hope and opportunity to millions of people around the globe .
we will be with you every step of the way . we ’ re not going anywhere . the cameras may leave . the spotlight may shift . but we will be with you every step of the way until joplin is restored and this community is back on its feet .
and , increasingly , civil society is a source of ideas -- about everything from promoting transparency and free expression , to reversing inequality and rescuing our environment . and that ’ s why , as part of our stand with civil society initiative , we ’ ve joined with people around the world to push back on those who deny your right to be heard . i ’ ve made it a mission of our government not only to protect civil society groups , but to partner with you and empower you with the knowledge and the technology and the resources to put your ideas into action . and the u.s. supports the efforts to establish a permanent , meaningful role for civil societies in future summits of the americas .
the bottom line is that people around the world , regardless of their nationality , should know that the united states is not spying on ordinary people who don ’ t threaten our national security , and that we take their privacy concerns into account in our policies and procedures . this applies to foreign leaders as well . given the understandable attention that this issue has received , i have made clear to the intelligence community that unless there is a compelling national security purpose , we will not monitor the communications of heads of state and government of our close friends and allies . and i ’ ve instructed my national security team , as well as the intelligence community , to work with foreign counterparts to deepen our coordination and cooperation in ways that rebuild trust going forward .
now , over the last several weeks , we 've seen a return of the politicization of these issues that have characterized the last several years . i 'm an elected official ; i understand these problems arouse passions and concerns . they should . we 're confronting some of the most complicated questions that a democracy can face . but i have no interest in spending all of our time relitigating the policies of the last eight years . i 'll leave that to others . i want to solve these problems , and i want to solve them together as americans .
president obama and i recognize the importance of strong economic engagement for the continued growth of both the philippines and the united states . on this note , we expressed our appreciation for the u.s. ’ s support for our government ’ s programs under the partnership for growth framework , which enhances the policy environment for economic growth through us $ 145 million total plan contribution from the usaid . u.s. support is also coursed through the millennium challenge corporation , which supports the implementation of projects and road infrastructure , poverty reduction , and good governance , with $ 434 million grant from 2011 to 2016 .
it is a friendship that flourished in the years after world war ii , when president truman committed our nation to the defense of turkey 's freedom and sovereignty , and turkey committed itself into the nato alliance . turkish troops have served by our side from korea to kosovo to kabul . together , we withstood the great test of the cold war . trade between our nations has steadily advanced . so has cooperation in science and research .
for generations , this promise helped people weather poverty and persecution , while holding on to the hope that a better day was on the horizon . for me , personally , growing up in far-flung parts of the world and without firm roots , the story spoke to a yearning within every human being for a home .
now , the fifth part of america 's education strategy is providing every american with a quality higher education -– whether it 's college or technical training . never has a college degree been more important . never has it been more expensive . and at a time when so many of our families are bearing enormous economic burdens , the rising cost of tuition threatens to shatter dreams . and that 's why we will simplify federal college assistance forms so it does n't take a ph.d to apply for financial aid .
we ’ re also fighting to get more vets hired in the private sector . with new tools like our online veterans jobs bank , we ’ re connecting veterans directly to jobs . we ’ re helping thousands of veterans get certified for good-paying jobs in manufacturing . we succeeded in passing tax credits for businesses that hire our veterans and our wounded warriors . and this morning , i signed into law the veteran skills to jobs act -- making it easier for veterans to transfer their outstanding military skills into the licenses and credentials they need to get civilian jobs .
we 'll invest in research and development of every form of alternative energy -- solar , wind , and biofuels , as well as technologies that can make coal clean and nuclear power safe . and from the moment i take office , i will let it be known that the united states of america is ready to lead again
yes , you 're from south memphis . yes , you 've always been underdogs . nobody has handed you a thing . but that also means that whatever you accomplish in your life , you will have earned it . whatever rewards and joys you reap , you 'll appreciate them that much more because they will have come through your own sweat and tears , products of your own effort and your own talents . you 've shown more grit and determination in your childhoods than a lot of adults ever will . that 's who you are .
and we are still the nation that has overcome great fears and improbable odds . if we act with the urgency and seriousness that this moment requires , i know that we can do it again
do n't just listen to what some advocates or folks who have an interest in this thing are saying . look at the actual legislation . that 's what happened here in colorado . and hopefully , if we know the facts and we ’ re listening to each other , then we can actually move forward .
in fact , even the nra used to support expanded background checks . the current leader of the nra used to support these background checks . so while this compromise didn ’ t contain everything i wanted or everything that these families wanted , it did represent progress . it represented moderation and common sense . that ’ s why 90 percent of the american people supported it .
in their actions to date , the governments of north korea and iran threaten to take us down this dangerous slope . we respect their rights as members of the community of nations . i 've said before and i will repeat , i am committed to diplomacy that opens a path to greater prosperity and more secure peace for both nations if they live up to their obligations .
and then we lose sight of the children without food and the men without shelter and the families without health care empowered by faith , consistently , prayerfully , we need to find our way back to civility . that begins with stepping out of our comfort zones in an effort to bridge divisions . we see that in many conservative pastors who are helping lead the way to fix our broken immigration system .
on september 11 , 2001 , in our time of grief , the american people came together . we offered our neighbors a hand , and we offered the wounded our blood . we reaffirmed our ties to each other , and our love of community and country . on that day , no matter where we came from , what god we prayed to , or what race or ethnicity we were , we were united as one american family .
and just as we draw strength from dr. king ’ s struggles , so must we draw inspiration from his constant insistence on the oneness of man ; the belief in his words that “ we are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality , tied in a single garment of destiny. ” it was that insistence , rooted in his christian faith , that led him to tell a group of angry young protesters , “ i love you as i love my own children , ” even as one threw a rock that glanced off his neck .
when i chose leon panetta as director of the cia , i said he was going to be a strong advocate for this agency and would strengthen your capabilities to meet the threats of our time . and when i chose jim clapper as director of national intelligence , i charged him with making sure that our intelligence community works as one integrated team . that ’ s exactly what these two leaders have done , along with all of you .
and all of you are here , and it ’ s great to see you . and i hope everybody is having a wonderful summer . the weather is perfect . whoever was in charge of that , good job .
this was the moment when we finally beat back the poli [ tics ] of fear and doubt and cynicism , the politics where we tear each other down instead of lifting this country up . this was the moment .
you know these stories ; you 've lived them , as well . all of you have a similar story to tell . you know , it 's -- i want children like yvonne bojorquez to have that chance . yvonne is a student at village academy high school in california . now , village academy is a 21st century school where cutting edge technologies are used in the classroom , where college prep and career training are offered to all who seek it , and where the motto is `` respect , responsibility , and results . ''
and that 's why i ’ ve said that as we emerge from this recession , we can ’ t afford to return to the pre-crisis status quo . we can ’ t go back to an economy that was too dependent on bubbles and debt and financial speculation . we can ’ t accept economic growth that leaves the middle class owing more and making less . we have to build a new and stronger foundation for growth and prosperity -- and that ’ s exactly what we ’ ve been doing for the last 16 months .
and we want to encourage high educational levels in asean countries because then it ’ s less likely that workers are exploited . and that means then that you ’ re competing with us because you have the best ideas and the best products , as opposed to just you have the cheapest labor . and if all that asean countries are offering are cheap labor , then what happens is u.s. workers get hurt and you don ’ t necessarily see an improvement in standards of living for those asean countries .
second , we will increase our support to forces fighting these terrorists on the ground . in june , i deployed several hundred american servicemembers to iraq to assess how we can best support iraqi security forces . now that those teams have completed their work –- and iraq has formed a government –- we will send an additional 475 servicemembers to iraq . as i have said before , these american forces will not have a combat mission –- we will not get dragged into another ground war in iraq . but they are needed to support iraqi and kurdish forces with training , intelligence and equipment . we 'll also support iraq 's efforts to stand up national guard units to help sunni communities secure their own freedom from isil 's control .
because indonesia is made up of thousands of islands , and hundreds of languages , and people from scores of regions and ethnic groups , my time here helped me appreciate the common humanity of all people . and while my stepfather , like most indonesians , was raised a muslim , he firmly believed that all religions were worthy of respect . and in this way -- in this way he reflected the spirit of religious tolerance that is enshrined in indonesia ’ s constitution , and that remains one of this country ’ s defining and inspiring characteristics .
today , vice president-elect biden and i are pleased to announce the nomination of four individuals who meet these criteria to lead our economic team : timothy geithner , as secretary of treasury ; lawrence summers , as the director of our national economic council ; christina romer , as chair of the council of economic advisers ; and melody barnes , as director of domestic -- the domestic policy council .
and most of all , we see the price of this war in the 125 soldiers from fort campbell who ’ ve made the ultimate sacrifice during this deployment to afghanistan . and every memorial ceremony -- every “ eagle remembrance ” -- is a solemn reminder of the heavy burdens of war , but also the values of loyalty and duty and honor that have defined your lives .
and one of the reasons is that our founders wisely embraced the separation of church and state . our government does not sponsor a religion , nor does it pressure anyone to practice a particular faith , or any faith at all .
you prepare a table for me in the presence of my enemies . you anoint my head with oil ; my cup overflows . surely , your goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life .
the greatest untapped resource in the middle east and north africa is the talent of its people . in the recent protests , we see that talent on display , as people harness technology to move the world . it ’ s no coincidence that one of the leaders of tahrir square was an executive for google . that energy now needs to be channeled , in country after country , so that economic growth can solidify the accomplishments of the street . for just as democratic revolutions can be triggered by a lack of individual opportunity , successful democratic transitions depend upon an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity .
if he were alive today , i believe he would remind us that the unemployed worker can rightly challenge the excesses of wall street without demonizing all who work there ; that the businessman can enter tough negotiations with his company ’ s union without vilifying the right to collectively bargain . he would want us to know we can argue fiercely about the proper size and role of government without questioning each other ’ s love for this country -- with the knowledge that in this democracy , government is no distant object but is rather an expression of our common commitments to one another . he would call on us to assume the best in each other rather than the worst , and challenge one another in ways that ultimately heal rather than wound .
finally , my proposal would bring down the cost of health care for millions -- families , businesses , and the federal government . we have now incorporated most of the serious ideas from across the political spectrum about how to contain the rising cost of health care -- - ideas that go after the waste and abuse in our system , especially in programs like medicare . but we do this while protecting medicare benefits , and extending the financial stability of the program by nearly a decade .
we ’ ve come a long way since i first took office . as a country , we ’ re older and wiser . i don ’ t know if i ’ m wiser , but i ’ m certainly older .
in this budget , we will end education programs that don ’ t work and end direct payments to large agribusinesses that don ’ t need them . we ’ ll eliminate the no-bid contracts that have wasted billions in iraq , and reform our defense budget so that we ’ re not paying for cold war-era weapons systems we don ’ t use . we will root out the waste , fraud , and abuse in our medicare program that doesn ’ t make our seniors any healthier , and we will restore a sense of fairness and balance to our tax code by finally ending the tax breaks for corporations that ship our jobs overseas .
over the last decade , the progress made by the brazilian people has inspired the world . more than half of this nation is now considered middle class . millions have been lifted from poverty . for the first time , hope is returning to places where fear had long prevailed . i saw this today when i visited cidade de deus -- the city of god .
men and women like these know what the world must never forget . the currents of history may ebb and flow , but over time they move -- decidedly , decisively -- in a single direction . history is on the side of the free -- free societies , free governments , free economies , free people . and the future belongs to those who stand firm for those ideals , in this region and around the world .
moreover , we have to recognize that these threats don ’ t arise in a vacuum . most , though not all , of the terrorism we faced is fueled by a common ideology -- a belief by some extremists that islam is in conflict with the united states and the west , and that violence against western targets , including civilians , is justified in pursuit of a larger cause . of course , this ideology is based on a lie , for the united states is not at war with islam . and this ideology is rejected by the vast majority of muslims , who are the most frequent victims of terrorist attacks .
the result is an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the united states . the overwhelming majority of these men and women are simply seeking a better life for themselves and their children . many settle in low-wage sectors of the economy ; they work hard , they save , they stay out of trouble .
we have no choice but to change the health care system , because right now it 's broken for too many americans we 're going to have to make tough choices necessary to bring down deficits . but do n't let folks fool you -- the best way to start bringing down deficits is to get control of our health care costs , which is why we need reform .
so if we 're truly committed to strengthening our middle class and providing more ladders of opportunity to those who are willing to work hard to make it into the middle class , we 've got to fix the system .
now , where we disagree , we will raise those differences directly -- as we will continue to do on issues related to democracy and human rights in cuba . but i believe that we can do more to support the cuban people and promote our values through engagement . after all , these 50 years have shown that isolation has not worked . it ’ s time for a new approach .
it lives on in the woman who said that even though she and her neighbors have felt the pain of recession , `` we are strong . we are resilient . we are american . ''
finally , because we ’ re also suffering from a deficit of trust , i am committed to restoring a sense of honesty and accountability to our budget . that is why this budget looks ahead ten years and accounts for spending that was left out under the old rules – and for the first time , that includes the full cost of fighting in iraq and afghanistan . for seven years , we have been a nation at war . no longer will we hide its price .
we are storytellers , writers , poets , artists who abhor unfairness , and despise hypocrisy , and give voice to the voiceless , and tell truths that need to be told . we ’ re the inventors of gospel and jazz and blues , bluegrass and country , and hip-hop and rock and roll , and our very own sound with all the sweet sorrow and reckless joy of freedom .
that ’ s what middle-class economics is -- the idea that this country does best when everyone gets their fair shot , everyone does their fair share , everyone plays by the same set of rules . we don ’ t just want everyone to share in america ’ s success , we want everyone to contribute to our success .
let me tell you what this means . first , we seek security , which is the foundation of peace and prosperity . we stand for an international order in which the rights and responsibilities of all nations and all people are upheld . where international law and norms are enforced . where commerce and freedom of navigation are not impeded . where emerging powers contribute to regional security , and where disagreements are resolved peacefully . that 's the future that we seek .
do n't think that fatherhood ends at conception . i know something about that because my father was n't around when i was young and i struggled those of you who read my book know . i went through some difficult times . i know what it means when you do n't have a strong male figure in the house , which is why the hardest thing about me being in politics sometimes is not being home as much as i 'd like and i 'm just blessed that i 've got such a wonderful wife at home to hold things together .
but this milestone should serve as a reminder to all americans that the future is ours to shape if we move forward with confidence and commitment . it should also serve as a message to the world that the united states of america intends to sustain and strengthen our leadership in this young century .
you know , i had the great honor of -- of knowing mrs. king , and the occasion to visit with her in atlanta last year . she was an extraordinarily gracious woman . we sat and chatted in her living room . we -- she showed me an album of photographs of her and dr. king and the children . and then she told me what her husband had said to her once , at a time when she was feeling burdened , understandably , by all the stress and strain that had been placed on the family as a consequence of his role in the civil rights movement . she said her husband suggested that :
and i think that 's a good thing . there 's nothing wrong with making money , but if you know your history , then you know that there is a certain poverty of ambition involved in simply striving just for money .
you and your families , this navy family , are still in the early hour of your grief . and i 'm here today to say that there is nothing routine about this tragedy . there is nothing routine about your loss . your loved ones will not be forgotten . they will endure in the hearts of the american people and in the hearts of the navy that they helped to keep strong , and the hearts of their coworkers and their friends and their neighbors .
this comes at a time when we see the strength of american leadership across the world . we ’ ve taken out al qaeda leaders , and we ’ ve put them on the path to defeat . we ’ re winding down the war in iraq and have begun a transition in afghanistan . and now , working in libya with friends and allies , we ’ ve demonstrated what collective action can achieve in the 21st century .
so tonight , we give thanks to our men and women in uniform -— especially our brave pilots and crews over iraq who are protecting our fellow americans and saving the lives of so many men , women and children that they will never meet . they represent american leadership at its best . as a nation , we should be proud of them , and of our country ’ s enduring commitment to uphold our own security and the dignity of our fellow human beings .
and let 's be the generation that finally , after all these years , tackles our health care crisis . we can control costs by focusing on prevention , by providing better treatment to the chronically ill , and using technology to cut the bureaucracy . let 's be the generation that says right here , right now : we will have universal health care in america by the end of the next president 's first term . we can do that .
so the investments we made in the recovery act will double this nation 's supply of renewable energy in the next three years . and we are putting americans to work making our homes and buildings more efficient so that we can save billions on our energy bills and grow our economy at the same time .
here ’ s another example . today , we are the only advanced country on earth that doesn ’ t guarantee paid sick leave or paid maternity leave to our workers . forty-three million workers have no paid sick leave -- 43 million .
of course , the soldiers left much behind . some were teenagers when the war began . many have served multiple tours of duty , far from families who bore a heroic burden of their own , enduring the absence of a husband ’ s embrace or a mother ’ s kiss . most painfully , since the war began , 55 members of the fourth stryker brigade made the ultimate sacrifice -- part of over 4,400 americans who have given their lives in iraq . as one staff sergeant said , “ i know that to my brothers in arms who fought and died , this day would probably mean a lot . ”
and i will not go back to the days when wall street was allowed to play by its own set of rules . the new rules we passed restore what should be any financial system ’ s core purpose : getting funding to entrepreneurs with the best ideas , and getting loans to responsible families who want to buy a home , or start a business , or send their kids to college .
second , we have to focus on our unique strengths . government has many capabilities , but it ’ s not appropriate or even possible for government to secure the computer networks of private businesses . many of the companies who are here today are cutting-edge , but the private sector doesn ’ t always have the capabilities needed during a cyber attack , the situational awareness , or the ability to warn other companies in real time , or the capacity to coordinate a response across companies and sectors . so we ’ re going to have to be smart and efficient and focus on what each sector does best , and then do it together .
now -- now , listen , i -- i ... -- thank you , thank you , thank you , thank you . [ to audience chanting `` obama '' ] look , i -- i ... recognize that there is a certain presumptuousness in this , a certain audacity , to this announcement . i know that i have n't spent a lot of time learning the ways of washington . but i 've been there long enough to know that the ways of washington must change .
we meet in the midst of the worst global recession in a generation . i believe that the free market is the greatest force for creating and distributing wealth that the world has known . but wherever the market is allowed to run rampant -- through excessive risk-taking , a lack of regulation , or corruption -- then all are endangered , whether we live on the mississippi or on the volga .
that 's who we are as americans . that 's what our brave men and women in uniform are standing up for as they spend the holidays in harm 's way . and we will continue to do everything that we can to keep america safe in the new year and beyond .
and edith ’ s story , from the daughter of mexican immigrants to the head of the ftc , we see a central part of the american story . and that 's worth remembering at a time when those are issues that we 're debating all the time . it 's a reminder that what makes this country special is the incredible talent that we draw from all around the world and somehow it all merges into something unique : america .
you know , when i was here in the spring , we had a coalition of 43 nations . now we ’ ve got a coalition of 49 nations . and this sends a powerful message that the coalition of nations that supports afghanistan is strong and is growing .
there are very few african american men in this country who have n't had the experience of being followed when they were shopping in a department store . that includes me . there are very few african american men who have n't had the experience of walking across the street and hearing the locks click on the doors of cars . that happens to me -- at least before i was a senator . there are very few african americans who have n't had the experience of getting on an elevator and a woman clutching her purse nervously and holding her breath until she had a chance to get off . that happens often .
as tempted more ; more able to endure , as more exposed to suffering and distress ; thence , also , more alive to tenderness . through his own suffering , ted kennedy became more alive to the plight and suffering of others - the sick child who could not see a doctor ; the young soldier sent to battle without armor ; the citizen denied her rights because of what she looks like or who she loves or where she comes from .
finally , we 're keeping faith with our newest veterans returning from afghanistan and iraq . we 're offering more of the support and counseling they need to transition back to civilian life . that includes funding the post-9/11 gi bill , which is already helping more than 300,000 veterans and family members pursue their dream of a college education .
i want you to think for a minute about the extraordinary men and women who ’ ve worn our country ’ s uniform and have given their last full measure of devotion to keep us safe and free . what if they said -- what if they said , “ i really do love this country , but why should i sacrifice so much for people i ’ ve never even met ? ” young men and women in uniform right now making those sacrifices .
this time we want to talk about the fact that the real problem is not that someone who does n't look like you might take your job ; it 's that the corporation you work for will ship it overseas for nothing more than a profit .
we also know that service does not end with the person wearing the uniform . in her visits with military families across the country , my wife michelle has learned firsthand about the unique burden that your families endure every day . i want you to know this : military families are a top priority for michelle and me , and they will be a top priority for my administration . we ’ ll raise military pay , and continue providing quality child-care , job-training for spouses , and expanded counseling and outreach to families that have known the separation and stress of war . we will also heed the lesson of history – that those who fight in battle can form the backbone of our middle class – by implementing a 21st century gi bill to help our veterans live their dreams .
and those wealthy nations that did so much damage to the environment in the 20th century must accept our obligation to lead . but responsibility does not end there . while we must acknowledge the need for differentiated responses , any effort to curb carbon emissions must include the fast-growing carbon emitters who can do more to reduce their air pollution without inhibiting growth . and any effort that fails to help the poorest nations both adapt to the problems that climate change have already wrought and help them travel a path of clean development simply will not work .
today , we ’ re also going to go one step further . in order to save energy and taxpayer dollars , my administration -- led by secretary chu at energy , as well as administrator johnson at gsa -- is doubling the number of hybrid vehicles in the federal fleet , even as we seek to reduce the number of cars and trucks used by our government overall . so we ’ re going to lead by example and practice what we preach : cutting waste , saving energy , and reducing our reliance on foreign oil .
“ peace is indeed harder than war , ” the irish author colum mccann recently wrote . “ and its constant fragility is part of its beauty . a bullet need happen only once , but for peace to work we need to be reminded of its existence again and again and again . ”
this week , america signed an agreement with the world health organization to affirm our commitment to meet this challenge . and today , i urge all nations to join us in meeting the hwo ’ s [ sic ] goal of making sure all nations have core capacities to address public health emergencies in place by 2012. that is what our commitment to the health of our people demands .
and we will safeguard america ’ s own security against those who threaten our citizens , our friends , and our interests . look at iran . through the power of our diplomacy , a world that was once divided about how to deal with iran ’ s nuclear program now stands as one . the regime is more isolated than ever before ; its leaders are faced with crippling sanctions , and as long as they shirk their responsibilities , this pressure will not relent .
now , i know i ’ m not the first president from the united states to pledge a new spirit of partnership with our latin american neighbors . words are easy , and i know that there have been times where perhaps the united states took this region for granted .
a new gi bill of rights for the 21st century is beginning to help soldiers coming home from iraq and afghanistan to begin a new life -- in a new economy . and the recovery plan has helped close state budget shortfalls -- which put enormous pressure on public universities and community colleges -- at the same time making historic investments in school libraries and classrooms and facilities all across america .
but they were on the ground , struggling to keep their families together -- helping each other , working on behalf of each other . in soweto , i met people who were striving to carry forward the legacy of hector pieterson .
second , i ’ m pleased that more banks , credit card issuers and lenders are stepping up and equipping americans with another weapon against identity theft , and that ’ s access to their credit scores , free of charge . this includes jpmorgan chase , bank of america , usaa , state employees ’ credit union , ally financial . some of them are here today . i want to thank them for their participation . this means that a majority of american adults will have free access to their credit score , which is like an early warning system telling you that you ’ ve been hit by fraud so you can deal with it fast . and we ’ re encouraging more companies to join this effort every day .
so with that , i ’ m going to take a few questions . and i ’ m going to start with somebody who i guess is now a big cheese -- he ’ s moved on . but i understand this is going to be his last chance to ask me a question in the press room . so i want to congratulate chuck todd and give him first dibs .
and to define that strategy , we have to make decisions based not on fear , but on hard-earned wisdom . that begins with understanding the current threat that we face today , the core of al qaeda in afghanistan and pakistan is on the path to defeat . their remaining operatives spend more time thinking about their own safety than plotting against us . they did not direct the attacks in benghazi or boston . they ’ ve not carried out a successful attack on our homeland since 9/11 .
on top of that , i 've also reversed the ban on stem cell research , signed an expansion -- signed an expansion of the children 's health insurance . just last week , car and driver named me auto executive of the year . something i 'm very proud of .
and that ’ s why , when congress gets back from recess , i will urge them to immediately take some steps -- bipartisan , common-sense steps -- that will make a difference ; that will create a climate where businesses can hire , where folks have more money in their pockets to spend , where people who are out of work can find good jobs .
and we ’ re now surrounded by the symbols of a germany reborn . a rebuilt reichstag and its glistening glass dome . an american embassy back at its historic home on pariser platz . and this square itself , once a desolate no man ’ s land , is now open to all . so while i am not the first american president to come to this gate , i am proud to stand on its eastern side to pay tribute to the past .
as we go forward , the united states and turkey can pursue many opportunities to serve prosperity for our people . the president and i this morning talked about expanding the ties of commerce and trade . there 's enormous opportunity when it comes to energy to create jobs . and we can increase new sources to not only free ourselves from dependence of other energies -- other countries ' energy sources , but also to combat climate change . we should build on our clean technology fund to leverage efficiency and renewable energy investments in turkey . and to power markets in turkey and europe , the united states will continue to support your central role as an east-west corridor for oil and natural gas .
you 've reached out across borders , with more international experience than any class in academy history . you 've not only attended foreign academies to forge new friendships , you 've welcomed into your ranks cadets from nearly a dozen countries .
and so i noticed that there were a couple of headlines out there saying , oh , we ’ re now in the land of political posturing , and it ’ s the usual he said-he said atmosphere . but look at the facts . look at where we started ; look at where they started . my proposal is right there in the middle .
early drug companies argued the bill creating the fda would `` practically destroy the sale of … remedies in the united states . '' that did n't happen . auto executives predicted that having to install seatbelts would bring the downfall of their industry .
imagine , for a moment , what we could have done in those days , and months , and years after 9/11 . we could have deployed the full force of american power to hunt down and destroy osama bin laden , al qaida , the taliban , and all of the terrorists responsible for 9/11 , while supporting real security in afghanistan .
when people could n't pay , she did n't charge them . when the clinic was n't making money , she did n't take a salary for herself . when hurricane george destroyed the clinic in 1998 , she made house calls to all her patients while it was rebuilt . when hurricane katrina destroyed it again and left most of her town homeless , she mortgaged her house and maxed out her credit cards to rebuild that clinic for a second time . she tended to those who had been wounded in the storm , and when folks needed medicine , she asked the pharmacist to send the bill her way .
some of those companies are here today . we want to thank you for your leadership . i want to encourage every company that provides these technologies to our schools to join this effort . it ’ s the right thing to do . and if you don ’ t join this effort , then we intend to make sure that those schools and those parents know you haven ’ t joined this effort .
it 's a promise that says the market should reward drive and innovation and generate growth , but that businesses should live up to their responsibilities to create american jobs , to look out for american workers , and play by the rules of the road .
may we all remember the times this american family has challenged us to ask what we can do ; to dream and say why not ; to seek a cause that endures ; and sail against the wind in its pursuit , and live our lives with that heightened sense of purpose .
and as president , that 's exactly what i 'll do . small steps and political gimmickry just wo n't do . i 'll invest $ 150 billion over the next ten years to put america on the path to true energy security .
during the past decade , the vast majority of those detained by our military were captured on the battlefield . in iraq , we turned over thousands of prisoners as we ended the war . in afghanistan , we have transitioned detention facilities to the afghans , as part of the process of restoring afghan sovereignty . so we bring law of war detention to an end , and we are committed to prosecuting terrorists wherever we can .
there are other steps we can take to help families make ends meet , and few are more effective at reducing inequality and helping families pull themselves up through hard work than the earned income tax credit . right now , it helps about half of all parents at some point . but i agree with republicans like senator rubio that it does n't do enough for single workers who do n't have kids . so let 's work together to strengthen the credit , reward work , and help more americans get ahead .
and this responsibility is only magnified in an era when an extremist ideology threatens our people , and technology gives a handful of terrorists the potential to do us great harm . we are less than eight years removed from the deadliest attack on american soil in our history . we know that al qaeda is actively planning to attack us again . we know that this threat will be with us for a long time , and that we must use all elements of our power to defeat it .
this solidarity has sustained us through a difficult decade . we will never forget the attacks of 9/11 , that took the lives not only of americans , but people from many nations , including australia . in the united states , we will never forget how australia invoked the anzus treaty -- for the first time ever -- showing that our two nations stood as one . and none of us will ever forget those we ’ ve lost to al qaeda ’ s terror in the years since , including innocent australians .
that ’ s the kind of relationship that israel should have -- and could have -- with every country in the world . already , we see how that innovation could reshape this region . there ’ s a program here in jerusalem that brings together young israelis and palestinians to learn vital skills in technology and business . an israeli and palestinian have started a venture capital fund to finance palestinian start-ups . over 100 high-tech companies have found a home on the west bank -- which speaks to the talent and entrepreneurial spirit of the palestinian people .
it is our destiny to bear the burdens of the challenges that i ’ ve addressed -- recession and war and conflict . and there is always a sense of urgency -- even emergency -- that drives most of our foreign policies . indeed , after millennia marked by wars , this very institution reflects the desire of human beings to create a forum to deal with emergencies that will inevitably come .
and this may be why you 've got many republican governors and senators and even a growing number of reasonable republican congressmen who are telling the extreme right of their party to knock it off , pass a budget , move on .
but right now , there are many caps on how many charter schools are allowed in some states , no matter how well they 're preparing our students . that is n't good for our children , our economy , or our country . of course , any expansion of charter schools must not result in the spread of mediocrity , but in the advancement of excellence . and that will require states adopting both a rigorous selection and review process to ensure that a charter school 's autonomy is coupled with greater accountability –- as well as a strategy , like the one in chicago , to close charter schools that are not working . provided this greater accountability , i call on states to reform their charter rules , and lift caps on the number of allowable charter schools , wherever such caps are in place .
and that ’ s why reversing these trends has to be washington ’ s highest priority . it has to be washington 's highest priority . it ’ s certainly my highest priority . unfortunately , over the past couple of years , in particular , washington hasn ’ t just ignored this problem ; too often , washington has made things worse .
a nation of whiners . tell that to the proud autoworkers at a michigan plant who , after they found out it was closing , kept showing up everyday and working as hard as ever because they knew there were people who counted on the brakes that they made . tell that to the military families who shoulder their burden silently as they watch their loved ones leave for there third or fourth or fifth tour of duty .
they all worked as they should , as a team . and we are extremely grateful for that . we owe a tremendous debt of gratitude to all our outstanding law enforcement professionals . these men and women get up every day , they put on that uniform ; they risk their lives to keep us safe -- and as this week showed , they do n't always know what to expect . so our thoughts are with those who were wounded in pursuit of the suspects and we pray for their full recovery .
now , these steps will ensure that you -- america 's seniors -- get the benefits you 've been promised . they will ensure that medicare is there for future generations . and we can use some of the savings to fill the gap in coverage that forces too many seniors to pay thousands of dollars a year out of their own pockets for prescription drugs . that 's what this plan will do for you . so do n't pay attention to those scary stories about how your benefits will be cut , especially since some of the same folks who are spreading these tall tales have fought against medicare in the past and just this year supported a budget that would essentially have turned medicare into a privatized voucher program . that will not happen on my watch . i will protect medicare .
to preserve our long-term fiscal health , we must also address the growing costs in medicare and social security . comprehensive health care reform is the best way to strengthen medicare for years to come . and we must also begin a conversation on how to do the same for social security , while creating tax-free universal savings accounts for all americans .
that ’ s a debate that we should have . but you don ’ t say , in order for me to control my appetites , i ’ m going to not pay the people who already provided me services , people who already lent me the money .
i thank you for the great honor of addressing the representatives of more than one billion indians and the world ’ s largest democracy . i bring the greetings and friendship of the world ’ s oldest democracy -- the united states of america , including nearly three million proud and patriotic indian-americans .
throughout our history , our greatest breakthroughs have often come from partnerships just like this one . american innovation has always been sparked by individual scientists and entrepreneurs , often at universities like carnegie mellon or georgia tech or berkeley or stanford . but a lot of companies don ’ t invest in early ideas because it won ’ t pay off right away . and that ’ s where government can step in . that ’ s how we ended up with some of the world-changing innovations that fueled our growth and prosperity and created countless jobs -- the mobile phone , the internet , gps , more than 150 drugs and vaccines over the last 40 years was all because we were able to , in strategic ways , bring people together and make some critical investments .
there is something happening . there 's something happening when americans who are young in age and in spirit , who 've never participated in politics before , turn out in numbers we have never seen because they know in their hearts that this time must be different .
i want to thank your outstanding local leaders for welcoming me here today , including captains chris plummer , mike price and brad martin . give them a big round of applause . and your great senior enlisted leaders , including master chief mike dollen , give them a big round of applause .
the joining forces alliance that michelle and jill biden launched has already encouraged employers to hire or train nearly 400,000 veterans and military spouses . taking a page from that playbook , the white house just organized a college opportunity summit where already , 150 universities , businesses , and nonprofits have made concrete commitments to reduce inequality in access to higher education -- and help every hardworking kid go to college and succeed when they get to campus .
finally , none of this can happen unless we also lower the temperature in this town . we need to end the notion that the two parties must be locked in a perpetual campaign of mutual destruction ; that politics is about clinging to rigid ideologies instead of building consensus around common-sense ideas .
it is routine . it is what they ’ re supposed to do . this is not a concession to me . it is not some demand that ’ s unreasonable that i ’ m making . this is what congress is supposed to do as a routine matter . and they shouldn ’ t wait until the last minute to do it . the last time republicans even threatened this course of action -- many of you remember , back in 2011 -- our economy staggered , our credit rating was downgraded for the first time . if they go through with it this time and force the united states to default on its obligations for the first time in history , it would be far more dangerous than a government shutdown -- as bad as a shutdown is . it would be an economic shutdown .
and i ’ ve been talking a lot about this lately , because i view smart trade agreements as a vital piece of middle-class economics . not a contradiction to middle-class economics , it ’ s a part and parcel of it .
so here ’ s my bottom line . i know this has been a difficult journey . i know this will be a tough vote . i know that everybody is counting votes right now in washington . but i also remember a quote i saw on a plaque in the white house the other day . it ’ s hanging in the same room where i demanded answers from insurance executives and just received a bunch of excuses . and it was a quote from teddy roosevelt , the person who first called for health care reform -- that republican -- all those years ago . and it said , “ aggressively fighting for the right is the noblest sport the world affords . ”
few people -- present company excluded -- can claim the expertise of buzz and bill and charlie when it comes to space exploration . i have to say that few people are as singularly unimpressed by air force one as those three . sure , it ’ s comfortable , but it can ’ t even reach low earth orbit . and that obviously is in striking contrast to the falcon 9 rocket we just saw on the launch pad , which will be tested for the very first time in the coming weeks .
number four , the last key component of reform . these wall street reforms will give shareholders new power in the financial system . they will get what we call a say on pay , a voice with respect to the salaries and bonuses awarded to top executives . and the sec will have the authority to give shareholders more say in corporate elections , so that investors and pension holders have a stronger role in determining who manages the company in which they ’ ve placed their savings .
already , we ’ ve mobilized business leaders to train 10,000 american engineers a year , by providing company internships and training . other businesses are covering tuition for workers who learn new skills at community colleges . and we ’ re going to make sure the next generation of manufacturing takes root not in china or europe , but right here , in the united states of america . if we provide the right incentives , the right support -- and if we make sure our trading partners play by the rules -- we can be the ones to build everything from fuel-efficient cars to advanced biofuels to semiconductors that we sell all around the world . that ’ s how america can be number one again . and that ’ s how america will be number one again .
they trust you . and that means that no matter how we reform health care , we will keep this promise to the american people : if you like your doctor , you will be able to keep your doctor , period .
eric holder has the talent and commitment to succeed as attorney general from his first day on the job , which is even more important in a transition that demands vigilance . he has distinguished himself as a prosecutor , a judge , and a senior official , and he is deeply familiar with the law enforcement challenges we face -- from terrorism to counter-intelligence , from white collar crime to public corruption . eric also has the combination of toughness and independence that we need at the justice department . let me be clear : the attorney general serves the american people . and i have every expectation that eric will protect our people , uphold the public trust , and adhere to our constitution .
i pledged to make it a priority to take out the terrorists who had attacked us on 9/11 . and as a candidate , i said that if we had osama bin laden in our sights , we would act to keep america safe -- even if it meant going into pakistan . some of you remember , at the time , that comment drew quite a bit of criticism . but since i took office , we ’ ve worked with our allies and our partners to take out more top al qaeda leaders than any time since 9/11 . and thanks to the courage and the skill of our forces , osama bin laden will never threaten america again , and al qaeda is on the road to defeat .
jakarta -- now , jakarta looked very different in those days . the city was filled with buildings that were no more than a few stories tall . this was back in 1967 , ‘ 68 -- most of you weren ’ t born yet . the hotel indonesia was one of the few high rises , and there was just one big department store called sarinah . that was it . betchaks and bemos , that ’ s how you got around . they outnumbered automobiles in those days . and you didn ’ t have all the big highways that you have today . most of them gave way to unpaved roads and the kampongs .
it is hard to eulogize any man -- to capture in words not just the facts and the dates that make a life , but the essential truth of a person -- their private joys and sorrows ; the quiet moments and unique qualities that illuminate someone ’ s soul . how much harder to do so for a giant of history , who moved a nation toward justice , and in the process moved billions around the world .
so our hearts are broken today -- for the parents and grandparents , sisters and brothers of these little children , and for the families of the adults who were lost . our hearts are broken for the parents of the survivors as well , for as blessed as they are to have their children home tonight , they know that their children ’ s innocence has been torn away from them too early , and there are no words that will ease their pain .
i also want to acknowledge your outstanding mayor -- who doesn ’ t look any older than the last time i saw him -- mayor luke ravenstahl . there he is , right there .
and that will not only mean less paper-pushing and lower administrative costs , saving taxpayers billions of dollars ; it will also mean all of you physicians will have an easier time doing your jobs . it will tell you , the doctors , what drugs a patient is taking so you can avoid prescribing a medication that could cause a harmful interaction . it will prevent the wrong dosages from going to a patient . it will reduce medical errors , it 's estimated , that lead to 100,000 lives lost unnecessarily in our hospitals every year .
to reduce our warheads and stockpiles , we will negotiate a new strategic arms reduction treaty with the russians this year . president medvedev and i began this process in london , and will seek a new agreement by the end of this year that is legally binding and sufficiently bold . and this will set the stage for further cuts , and we will seek to include all nuclear weapons states in this endeavor .
all right . matt spetalnick . q thank you , sir . you ’ ve spoken extensively about the debt ceiling debate , but some republicans have further said that they 're willing to allow a government shutdown to take place rather than put off deep spending cuts . are you prepared to allow the government to grind to a halt if you disagree with the spending cut proposals they put forth ? and who do you think the american people would blame if that came to pass ?
thank you so much class of 2005 , and congratulations on your graduation . thank you . senator obama : thank you very much , mr. president ; ladies and gentlemen of the senate :
so i ’ m proposing -- in part because of strong lobbying by bill and by suzanne , as well as charlie -- i ’ m proposing a $ 40 million initiative led by a high-level team from the white house , nasa , and other agencies to develop a plan for regional economic growth and job creation . and i expect this plan to reach my desk by august 15th . it ’ s an effort that will help prepare this already skilled workforce for new opportunities in the space industry and beyond .
and it ’ s also about fairness . it ’ s about whether we are , in fact , in this together , and we ’ re looking out for one another . we know what ’ s right . it ’ s time to do what ’ s right .
what we saw that morning forced us to recognize that in a new world of threats , we are no longer protected by our own power . and what we saw that morning was a challenge to a new generation .
we don ’ t begrudge financial success in this country . we admire it . when americans talk about folks like me paying my fair share of taxes , it ’ s not because they envy the rich .
we are here today because we know this work is not yet finished . to this day , there are those who insist that the holocaust never happened -- a denial of fact and truth that is baseless and ignorant and hateful . this place is the ultimate rebuke to such thoughts ; a reminder of our duty to confront those who would tell lies about our history .
for all the challenges that lie ahead , we see many reasons to be hopeful . in egypt , we see it in the efforts of young people who led protests . in syria , we see it in the courage of those who brave bullets while chanting , “ peaceful , peaceful. ” in benghazi , a city threatened with destruction , we see it in the courthouse square where people gather to celebrate the freedoms that they had never known . across the region , those rights that we take for granted are being claimed with joy by those who are prying loose the grip of an iron fist .
a few weeks ago , 4 million small business owners and organizations got a postcard in their mailbox from the irs . now , usually that 's not good news . but this time it was because it told them that they could be eligible for a health care tax cut this year -- a tax cut worth potentially tens of thousands of dollars for those small businesses ; a tax cut that will help millions to provide coverage to their employees . that 's happening now .
the problem with that approach is that unless everyone has access to affordable coverage , you ca n't prevent insurance companies from denying coverage based on preexisting conditions ; you ca n't limit the amount families are forced to pay out of their own pockets . the insurance reforms rest on everybody having access to coverage . and you also do n't do anything about the fact that taxpayers currently end up subsidizing the uninsured when they 're forced to go to the emergency room for care , to the tune of about a thousand bucks per family . you ca n't get those savings if those people are still going to the emergency room . so the fact is , health reform only works if you take care of all of these problems at once .
their words speak to us today . and i know in some of the discussions these voices have been raised : `` i witnessed horrible crimes committed by isis . '' `` it ’ s not a revolution or jihad…it ’ s a slaughter…i was shocked by what i did .
the second category of cases involves detainees who violate the laws of war and are therefore best tried through military commissions . military commissions have a history in the united states dating back to george washington and the revolutionary war . they are an appropriate venue for trying detainees for violations of the laws of war . they allow for the protection of sensitive sources and methods of intelligence-gathering ; they allow for the safety and security of participants ; and for the presentation of evidence gathered from the battlefield that can not always be effectively presented in federal courts .
question : good afternoon , mr. president . i ’ m from malaysia . i work at department of irrigation and drainage in malaysia . my yseali theme is environmental sustainability . and my question for you is , what have you learned about leadership and life as being president in comparison to what you have might not learned if you were not a president ?
now , i 've given a lot of speeches about education . and i 've talked about responsibility a lot . i 've talked about teachers ' responsibility for inspiring students and pushing you to learn .
a new jersey native , phyllis schneck retired to tucson to beat the snow . but in the summer , she would return east , where her world revolved around her three children , her seven grandchildren and 2-year-old great-granddaughter . a gifted quilter , she ’ d often work under a favorite tree , or sometimes she 'd sew aprons with the logos of the jets and the giants -- to give out at the church where she volunteered . a republican , she took a liking to gabby , and wanted to get to know her better .
there ’ s a reason why so many who marched that day , and in the days to come , were young -- for the young are unconstrained by habits of fear , unconstrained by the conventions of what is . they dared to dream differently , to imagine something better . and i am convinced that same imagination , the same hunger of purpose stirs in this generation .
the story of america is n't about people who quit when things got tough . it 's about people who kept going , who tried harder , who loved their country too much to do anything less than their best .
scripture tells us that there is evil in the world , and that terrible things happen for reasons that defy human understanding . in the words of job , “ when i looked for light , then came darkness. ” bad things happen , and we have to guard against simple explanations in the aftermath .
now , having said that , perhaps -- we have tried to work on that particular premise of building up our ties on different aspects where there is no conflict or very little conflict . and in this particular instance , i have to find the way and means by which we can both achieve our respective goals , which i believe are not -- or should not be mutually exclusive , but rather should be inclusive if at the end of the day , we do want to strive for the prosperity of our respective peoples .
and nothing will change that is one option . or , at this moment , in this election , we can come together and say , `` not this time . '' this time we want to talk about the crumbling schools that are stealing the future of black children and white children and asian children and hispanic children and native-american children .
these are the investments we must make to create jobs and opportunity now and in the future . and in a departure from the way business had been done in washington , we actually show how we pay for these investments while putting our country on a more fiscally sustainable path .
i want americans to win the race for the kinds of discoveries that unleash new jobs -- converting sunlight into liquid fuel ; creating revolutionary prosthetics , so that a veteran who gave his arms for his country can play catch with his kids again . pushing out into the solar system not just to visit , but to stay . last month , we launched a new spacecraft as part of a reenergized space program that will send american astronauts to mars . and in two months , to prepare us for those missions , scott kelly will begin a year-long stay in space . so good luck , captain . make sure to instagram it . we ’ re proud of you .
while the uniqueness of the holocaust in scope and in method is truly astounding , the holocaust was driven by many of the same forces that have fueled atrocities throughout history : the scapegoating that leads to hatred and blinds us to our common humanity ; the justifications that replace conscience and allow cruelty to spread ; the willingness of those who are neither perpetrators nor victims to accept the assigned role of bystander , believing the lie that good people are ever powerless or alone , the fiction that we do not have a choice .
now , little more than 40 years ago , astronauts descended the nine-rung ladder of the lunar module called eagle , and allowed their feet to touch the dusty surface of the earth ’ s only moon . this was the culmination of a daring and perilous gambit -- of an endeavor that pushed the boundaries of our knowledge , of our technological prowess , of our very capacity as human beings to solve problems . it wasn ’ t just the greatest achievement in nasa ’ s history -- it was one of the greatest achievements in human history .
to vice admiral miller , thank you for the outstanding work that you do . to captain clark and all the faculty and staff ; to the moms and dads who raised your sons and daughters to seek this life of service ; to the local sponsor families who cared for them far from home ; the members of the class of 1963 -- veterans who ’ ve guided these midshipmen along the way -- today is also a tribute to your support and your patriotism . and i know that the class of 2013 joins me in saluting your service as well .
so , listen , i know a lot of folks who are skeptical about trade . past trade deals didn ’ t always live up to the hype . labor and environmental protections weren ’ t always strong enough .
at times , it seems like we 're unable to listen to one another ; to have at once a serious and civil debate . and this erosion of civility in the public square sows division and distrust among our citizens .
for in taking up this debate , in figuring out how to apply well-worn principles with each new age , we ensure that we don ’ t tip too far one way or the other -- that our democracy remains as dynamic and our economy remains as dynamic as it has in the past .
we have set a clear and focused goal : to work with all members of this body to disrupt , dismantle , and defeat al qaeda and its extremist allies -- a network that has killed thousands of people of many faiths and nations , and that plotted to blow up this very building . in afghanistan and pakistan , we and many nations here are helping these governments develop the capacity to take the lead in this effort , while working to advance opportunity and security for their people .
and yet , as our fight enters a new phase , america ’ s legitimate claim of self-defense can not be the end of the discussion . to say a military tactic is legal , or even effective , is not to say it is wise or moral in every instance . for the same human progress that gives us the technology to strike half a world away also demands the discipline to constrain that power -- or risk abusing it . and that ’ s why , over the last four years , my administration has worked vigorously to establish a framework that governs our use of force against terrorists –- insisting upon clear guidelines , oversight and accountability that is now codified in presidential policy guidance that i signed yesterday .
she insists on competence and accountability . she knows firsthand the need to have a partner in washington that works well with state and local governments . she understands as well as anyone the danger of an unsecure border .
and look at the people of this city and this region -- fishermen who ’ ve made their lives on the water , families who ’ ve lived here for generations , hardworking folks who ’ ve had to endure more than their share -- tough economic times and hurricanes and storms that forced so many families and communities to start over from scratch . but they never gave up . they started over , and they rebuilt stronger than before .
you taught us about duty . blessed to live in the land of the free , you could have opted for an easier path , but you know that freedom is not free . and so you volunteered , and you stepped forward , and you raised your hand , and you took an oath to protect and defend , to serve a cause greater than yourself , knowing , in a time of war , you could be sent into harm 's way .
that is the conviction we must carry now in our hearts . as tough as times may be , i know we will overcome . i know there are better days ahead . i know this because of the man towering over us . i know this because all he and his generation endured -- we are here today in a country that dedicated a monument to that legacy .
and i want to recognize our student speakers . cindy , who embodies the best of our traditions in this country -- arrived three or four years ago and graduates as the valedictorian -- this is what is continually replenishing the energy and the dynamism and the innovation of this country , and we could not be prouder of you . thank you . and to simon , i ’ m glad that , according to the constitution , you can ’ t run till you ’ re 35. so i ’ ll be long gone by then . but it gives me great confidence to know that we ’ ve got such incredible young leaders who are going to be remaking the world in so many different ways .
no , many businesses have already embraced this idea because it provides a level of certainty about the future . and for those that face transition costs , we can help them adjust . but if we refuse to take into account the full costs of our fossil fuel addiction -- if we don ’ t factor in the environmental costs and the national security costs and the true economic costs -- we will have missed our best chance to seize a clean energy future .
now , even though it is a hallmark of american democracy that we have our arguments back home , we have our debates , we have our elections , i can say without hesitation that there is no division on one thing , no hesitation on one thing -- and that is the uniform support of our men and women who are serving in the armed services . hooah !
as soon as i sign this bill , it will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick or water it down when you need it the most .
even in his early career , walter cronkite resisted the temptation to get the story first in favor of getting it right . he wanted to get it first , but he understood the importance of getting it right . during one of his first jobs in kansas city , walter 's program manager urged him to go on the air reporting a massive blaze -- and we just heard how much he loved fires -- a massive blaze at city hall that had already claimed lives . when walter reached for the telephone , his boss asked , `` what are you doing ; get on the air ! '' walter replied that he was calling the fire department to confirm the story . `` you do n't need to confirm it , '' the manager shouted , `` my wife is watching the whole thing ! ''
perhaps president correa has more confidence than i do in distinguishing between bad press and good press . there are a whole bunch of press that i think is bad , mainly because it criticizes me , but they continue to speak out in the united states because i don ’ t have confidence in a system in which one person is making that determination . i think that if we believe in democracy it means that everybody has the chance to speak out and offer their opinions , and stand up for what they believe is right , and express their conscience , and pray as they would , and organize and assemble as they believe is appropriate -- as long as they ’ re not operating violently .
so let me give you a quick preview of what i ’ ll be fighting for and why . the first cornerstone of a strong , growing middle class has to be , as i said before , an economy that generates more good jobs in durable , growing industries . that 's how this area was built . that 's how america prospered . because anybody who was willing to work , they could go out there and they could find themselves a job , and they could build a life for themselves and their family .
but he still insisted on the rightness of desegregating the armed forces . that was a good first step -- even as he called for more . he didn ’ t suggest that somehow by the signing of the civil rights that somehow all discrimination would end .
what is needed ? what can best be done ? what must be done ? today 's dangers are different , though no less grave . the power to destroy life on a catastrophic scale now risks falling into the hands of terrorists . the future of our security -- and our planet -- is held hostage to our dependence on foreign oil and gas . from the cave- spotted mountains of northwest pakistan , to the centrifuges spinning beneath iranian soil , we know that the american people can not be protected by oceans or the sheer might of our military alone .
it is an insult not only to muslims , but to america as well -- for as the city outside these walls makes clear , we are a country that has welcomed people of every race and every faith . we are home to muslims who worship across our country . we not only respect the freedom of religion , we have laws that protect individuals from being harmed because of how they look or what they believe . we understand why people take offense to this video because millions of our citizens are among them .
and finally , we have to stand firm for the security of our citizens . we must continue to join with our partners across the region , especially in central america , but also in the caribbean , to promote an approach , a holistic approach that applies rule of law , respects human rights , but also tackles the narco-traffickers that devastate so many communities . this is a shared responsibility . and i ’ ve said before that the united states has a responsibility to reduce the demand for drugs and to reduce the flow of weapons south , even as we partner with you to go after the networks that can cause so much violence .
now , we ’ re not going to do that alone . we ’ re going to have to do that with other partners , and particularly sunni partners , because part of the goal here is to make sure that sunnis both in syria and in iraq feel as if they ’ ve got an investment in a government that actually functions , a government that can protect them , a government that makes sure that their families are safe from the barbaric acts that we ’ ve seen in isil .
of course , as we meet here today , one year later , we know the promise of that moment has not yet been fully fulfilled . because of an era of greed and irresponsibility that sowed the seeds of its own demise , because of persistent economic troubles unaddressed through the generations , because of a banking crisis that brought the financial system to the brink of catastrophe , we are being tested -- in our own lives and as a nation -- as few have been tested before .
and if congress is looking for a bipartisan place to get started , i should just say they don ’ t have to look far . we mentioned immigration reform before . economists show that immigration reform makes undocumented workers pay their full share of taxes , and that actually shores up the social security system for years . so we should get that done .
now , i don ’ t know how many could be here , because they ’ re out there on the water right now , responding to the spill -- but i want to thank all the folks at coast guard station pensacola for their outstanding work . and i know somebody who is especially proud of them , and that ’ s the former commandant of the coast guard who postponed his retirement to answer his country ’ s call once more and coordinate the federal response effort to the spill -- and that ’ s admiral thad allen . please give him a big round of applause .
now , it is true that weary travelers , and now the wider world , know they can rely on the czech stop for a brief respite in the middle of a long stretch of highway .
so now is the time to act . now is the time for both sides and both houses of congress –- democrats and republicans -– to forge a principled compromise that gets the job done . if we make the hard choices now to rein in our deficits , we can make the investments we need to win the future .
but since i ’ ve only got two years left in this job , i tend to be impatient and i didn ’ t want to wait for the state of the union to start sharing my plans . so i ’ ve been traveling across the country rolling out some of the ideas that we ’ ll be talking about , a little bit of a sneak preview .
now , if we are able to obtain a final deal that comports with the political agreement -- and i say “ if ” because that ’ s not yet final -- then i ’ m absolutely positive that that is the best way to prevent iran from getting a nuclear weapon . and that ’ s not my opinion ; that ’ s the opinion of people like ernie moniz , my secretary of energy , who is a physicist from mit and actually knows something about this stuff . that ’ s the opinion of a whole bunch of nuclear experts who examined the deal .
one year ago , the people of libya were ruled by the world ’ s longest-serving dictator . but faced with bullets and bombs and a dictator who threatened to hunt them down like rats , they showed relentless bravery .
we also know that our support for civil society is not just about what we ’ re against , but also what we ’ re for . because we ’ ve noticed that governments that are more responsive and effective are typically governments where the people are free to assemble , and speak their minds , and petition their leaders , and hold us accountable .
and as we do , rest assured that the iranian government will know our resolve , and that our coordination with israel will continue these are challenging times . but we 've been through challenging times before , and the united states and israel have come through them together . because of our cooperation , citizens in both our countries have benefited from the bonds that bring us together .
in other words , when met with hardship , when confronting disappointment , dr. king refused to accept what he called the “ isness ” of today . he kept pushing towards the “ oughtness ” of tomorrow
we discussed the steps that the philippines could take to position itself for the trans-pacific partnership . and i encouraged the president to seize the opportunity he ’ s created by opening the next phase of economic reform and growth .
the truth is , the debate we ’ ve had for decades now between more government and less government , it doesn ’ t really fit the times in which we live . we know that too much government can stifle competition and deprive us of choice and burden us with debt . but we ’ ve also clearly seen the dangers of too little government -- like when a lack of accountability on wall street nearly leads to the collapse of our entire economy .
then the housing bubble burst . home prices fell . people began to default on their subprime mortgages . and the value of all those loans and securities plummeted . banks and investors could n't find anyone to buy them . greed gave way to fear . investors pulled their money out of the market . large financial institutions that did n't have enough money on hand to pay off all their obligations collapsed . other banks held on tight to their money and simply stopped lending .
if you reject the notion that this nation 's promise is reserved for the few , your voice must be heard in this election . if you reject the notion that our government is forever beholden to the highest bidder , you need to stand up in this election .
i know that 's a view that 's shared by our secretary of defense and by our joint chiefs of staff and all the leadership here . they ’ re hard lessons , but they ’ re ones that are deeply engrained in our hearts .
and there ’ s a hotline where you can apply over the phone and get help with the application , or just get questions that you have answered by real people , in 150 different languages . so let me give you that number . the number is 1-800-318-2596 -- 1-800-318-2596. check out healthcare.gov . call that number . show your family and friends how to use it . and we can get america covered , once and for all , so that the struggles that these folks have gone through and millions around the country have gone through for years finally get addressed .
just this morning , we were reminded again of why we need a new and more rigorous approach to address this threat . north korea broke the rules once again by testing a rocket that could be used for long range missiles . this provocation underscores the need for action -- not just this afternoon at the u.n. security council , but in our determination to prevent the spread of these weapons .
for over six decades , the american people have kept that faith . yes , we are bound to israel because of the interests that we share -- in security for our communities , prosperity for our people , the new frontiers of science that can light the world . but ultimately it is our common ideals that provide the true foundation for our relationship . that is why america ’ s commitment to israel has endured under democratic and republican presidents , and congressional leaders of both parties . in the united states , our support for israel is bipartisan , and that is how it should stay .
so what ’ s happening is through the affordable care act , we ’ re creating these marketplaces with more competition , more choice , and so the question is , what happens to cost ?
my multiple responsibilities as commander-in-chief led me to this decision . first , i have a responsibility to the extraordinary men and women who are fighting this war and to the democratic institutions that i 've been elected to lead . i 've got no greater honor than serving as commander-in-chief of our men and women in uniform .
although i keep on reminding folks , gas prices , they go up and they come down and then they go up . so i just want everybody to know that you should enjoy this . take the money you ’ re saving , pay off the credit card or go get a new appliance , or buy a fuel-efficient car -- so that when prices go back up , you ’ re still well-positioned .
thank you very much , everybody . to irene , ken , jennifer , danny 's friends and former colleagues , it is an extraordinary honor to be here with you in this magnificent place to pay tribute to a man who would probably we wondering what all the fuss is about .
since the days of franklin roosevelt , and the service and sacrifice of our grandparents and great grandparents , our country has borne a special burden in global affairs . we have spilled american blood in many countries on multiple continents . we have spent our revenue to help others rebuild from rubble and develop their own economies . we have joined with others to develop an architecture of institutions from the united nations to nato to the world bank that provide for the common security and prosperity of human beings .
now even as we fight the wars in front of us , we also have to see the horizon beyond these wars -- because unlike a terrorist whose goal is to destroy , our future will be defined by what we build . we have to see that horizon , and to get there we must pursue a strategy of national renewal and global leadership . we have to build the sources of america 's strength and influence , and shape a world that 's more peaceful and more prosperous .
i , therefore , ask leaders in both houses of congress to finish their work and schedule a vote in the next few weeks . from now until then , i will do everything in my power to make the case for reform . and i urge every american who wants this reform to make their voice heard as well -- - every family , every business , every patient , every doctor , every nurse , every physician ’ s assistant . make your voice heard .
through faith , but not through faith alone , we can unite people to serve the common good . and that 's why my office of faith-based and neighborhood partnerships has been working so hard since i announced it here last year . we 've slashed red tape and built effective partnerships on a range of uses , from promoting fatherhood here at home to spearheading interfaith cooperation abroad . and through that office we 've turned the faith-based initiative around to find common ground among people of all beliefs , allowing them to make an impact in a way that 's civil and respectful of difference and focused on what matters most .
i thread my way through the hospitals , the hurt and wounded i pacify with soothing hand , i sit by the restless all the dark night , some are so young , some suffer so much ,
i know it 's been a hard road we 've traveled this year to rescue the economy , but the economy is growing again . the job losses have finally slowed , and around the country , there 's signs that businesses and families are beginning to rebound . we are making progress .
so to change washington , you , the american people , are going to have to sustain some passion about this . and when necessary , you ’ ve got to send the right people to washington . and that requires strength , and it requires persistence .
history will not judge , mr. president , the architects of this war kindly . but the books have yet to be written on our effort to right the wrongs we see in iraq . the story has yet to be told about how we turned from this moment , found our way out of the desert , and took to heart the lessons of war that too many refused to heed back then ; for it is of little use or comfort to recall past advice and warnings if we do not allow them to guide us in the challenges that lie ahead . mr. president , threats loom large in an age where terrorist networks thrive , and there will certainly be times when we have to call on our brave servicemen and women to risk their lives again .
let us renew our commitment to all those who serve in our defense -- our courageous men and women in uniform and their families and all those who protect us here at home . mindful that the work of protecting america is never finished , we will do everything in our power to keep america safe .
from some on the right , i expect we 'll hear a different argument -- that if we just make fewer investments in our people , extend tax cuts including those for the wealthier americans , eliminate more regulations , maintain the status quo on health care , our deficits will go away . the problem is that 's what we did for eight years . that 's what helped us into this crisis . it 's what helped lead to these deficits . we ca n't do it again .
first , many of you have asked , won ’ t this put us on a slippery slope to another war ? one man wrote to me that we are “ still recovering from our involvement in iraq. ” a veteran put it more bluntly : “ this nation is sick and tired of war . ”
it will not be easy . there ’ s no straight line to progress , and hardship always accompanies a season of hope . but the united states of america was founded on the belief that people should govern themselves . and now we can not hesitate to stand squarely on the side of those who are reaching for their rights , knowing that their success will bring about a world that is more peaceful , more stable , and more just .
jai hind ! thank you . thank you very much . please , please . thank you . well , good morning . giving all praise and honor to god . it is wonderful to be back with you here . i want to thank our co-chairs , bob and roger . these two do n't always agree in the senate , but in coming together and uniting us all in prayer , they embody the spirit of our gathering today .
it ’ s not a nice-to-have -- it ’ s a must-have . so it ’ s time we stop treating childcare as a side issue , or as a women ’ s issue , and treat it like the national economic priority that it is for all of us . and that ’ s why my plan will make quality childcare more available and more affordable for every middle-class and low-income family with young children in america -- by creating more slots and a new tax cut of up to $ 3,000 per child , per year .
do it for them . do it for people who are really scared right now through no fault of their own , who ’ ve played by the rules , who ’ ve done all the right things , and have suddenly found out that because of an accident , because of an ailment , they ’ re about to lose their house ; or they can ’ t provide the help to their kids that they need ; or they ’ re a small business who up until now has always taken pride in providing care for their workers and it turns out that they just can ’ t afford to do it anymore and they ’ ve having to make a decision about do i keep providing health insurance for my workers or do i just drop their coverage or do i not hire some people because i simply can ’ t afford it -- it ’ s all being gobbled up by the insurance companies
i also have to point out the perils of too much regulation are also matched by the dangers of too little . and we saw that in the financial crisis , where the absence of sound rules of the road , that was n't good for business . even if you were n't in the financial sector it was n't good for business . and that 's why , with the help of paul volcker , who is here today , we passed a set of common-sense reforms .
everybody who wants insurance through the marketplace will get insurance third , we are doing everything we can possibly do to get the websites working better , faster , sooner . we ’ ve got people working overtime , 24/7 , to boost capacity and address the problems . experts from some of america ’ s top private-sector tech companies who , by the way , have seen things like this happen before , they want it to work . they 're reaching out . they 're offering to send help . we ’ ve had some of the best it talent in the entire country join the team . and we ’ re well into a “ tech surge ” to fix the problem . and we are confident that we will get all the problems fixed .
they ’ re not going to sell out . they ’ ll be available through the marketplace -- throughout the open enrollment period . the prices that insurers have set will not change . so everybody who wants insurance through the marketplace will get insurance , period .
and now we ’ ve got middle class americans , don ’ t have medicare , don ’ t have medicaid , watching the employer-based system fray along the edges or being caught in terrible situations . and the question is , are we going to be true to them ?
now , all of you , the american people , you ’ ve worked too hard for too long rebuilding and digging our way out of the financial crisis back in 2007 and 2008 just to see congress cause another one . the greatest nation on earth ca n't keep on conducting its business drifting from one crisis to the next .
as i ’ ve made clear throughout this trip , the united states is renewing our leadership in the asia pacific , and our engagement is rooted in our alliances . and that includes the philippines , which is the oldest security treaty alliance that we have in asia . as a vibrant democracy , the philippines reflects the desire of citizens in this region to live in freedom and to have their universal rights upheld . as one of the fastest-growing economies in asia , the philippines represents new opportunities for the trade and investment that creates jobs in both countries .
finally , many of you have asked : why not leave this to other countries , or seek solutions short of force ? as several people wrote to me , “ we should not be the world ’ s policeman . ”
because this year , small businesses will start getting tax credits so that they can offer health insurance to employees who currently don ’ t have it . because this year , those same parents who are worried about getting coverage for their children with preexisting conditions now are assured that insurance companies have to give them coverage -- this year .
and so , in both word and deed , we have been unwavering in our support of israel ’ s security . and it is precisely because of our commitment to israel ’ s long-term security that we have worked to advance peace between israelis and palestinians .
but today , israel is at a crossroads . it can be tempting to put aside the frustrations and sacrifices that come with the pursuit of peace , particularly when iron dome repels rockets , barriers keep out suicide bombers . there 's so many other pressing issues that demand your attention . and i know that only israelis can make the fundamental decisions about your country ’ s future . i recognize that .
this year also saw iraq hold credible elections that drew a strong turnout . a caretaker administration is in place as iraqis form a government based on the results of that election . tonight , i encourage iraq ’ s leaders to move forward with a sense of urgency to form an inclusive government that is just , representative , and accountable to the iraqi people . and when that government is in place , there should be no doubt : the iraqi people will have a strong partner in the united states . our combat mission is ending , but our commitment to iraq ’ s future is not .
we ’ d still have to depend on other countries to meet our energy needs . and because it ’ s a world market , the fact that we ’ re doing more here in the united states doesn ’ t necessarily help us because even u.s. oil companies they ’ re selling that oil on a worldwide market .
these words must now be followed by action and i believe that both leaders have the courage to do so . but the road that they have to travel is exceedingly difficult , which is why i call upon israelis and palestinians -- and the world -- to rally behind the goal that these leaders now share . we know that there will be tests along the way and that one test is fast approaching . israel ’ s settlement moratorium has made a difference on the ground and improved the atmosphere for talks .
around the globe , there are signposts of progress . the shadow of world war that existed at the founding of this institution has been lifted , and the prospect of war between major powers reduced . the ranks of member states has more than tripled , and more people live under governments they elected . hundreds of millions of human beings have been freed from the prison of poverty , with the proportion of those living in extreme poverty cut in half . and the world economy continues to strengthen after the worst financial crisis of our lives .
she understands the need for a department of homeland security that has the capacity to help prevent terrorist attacks and respond to catastrophe -- be it manmade or natural . janet assumes this critical role having learned the lessons -- some of them painful -- of the last several years , from 9/11 to katrina .
this completes a transition to iraqi responsibility for their own security . u.s. troops pulled out of iraq ’ s cities last summer , and iraqi forces have moved into the lead with considerable skill and commitment to their fellow citizens . even as iraq continues to suffer terrorist attacks , security incidents have been near the lowest on record since the war began . and iraqi forces have taken the fight to al qaeda , removing much of its leadership in iraqi-led operations .
that proved not to be the case . and that 's on me . and the american people -- those who got cancellation notices do deserve and have received an apology from me . but they do n't want just words . what they want is whether we can make sure that they are in a better place , and that we meet that commitment .
but what you ’ ve also seen , perhaps not as spectacularly , is the fact that when you drive by the old maytag plant around lunchtime , no one walks out anymore . i saw it during the campaign when i met union guys who worked at the plant for 20 , 30 years and now wonder what they ’ re gon na do at the age of 55 without a pension or health care ; when i met the man who ’ s son needed a new liver but because he ’ d been laid off , didn ’ t know if he could afford to provide his child the care that he needed
but we always knew that these marketplaces , creating a place where people can shop and through competition get a better deal for the health insurance that their families need , we always knew that that was going to be complicated and everybody was going to be paying a lot of attention to it . and we should have done a better job getting that right on day one -- not on day 28 or on day 40 .
even in our sleep , pain which can not forget falls drop by drop upon the heart , until , in our own despair , against our will , comes wisdom through the awful grace of god .
but we ’ ve always believed that we have a responsibility to guarantee all our people every tool necessary for them to meet their full potential . so if they ’ re willing to work hard , they can succeed . and in a 21st-century economy , that has never been more important . every american deserves access to the world ’ s information . every american deserves access to the global economy . we have promised this for 15 years . it ’ s time we delivered on that promise . it ’ s time we delivered on that promise .
the sheer improbability of this victory is part of what makes d-day so memorable . it also arises from the clarity of purpose with which this war was waged . we live in a world of competing beliefs and claims about what is true . it 's a world of varied religions and cultures and forms of government . in such a world , it 's all too rare for a struggle to emerge that speaks to something universal about humanity .
and i have to say that -- because i 'm looking around the room -- i 've got some friends here not just who are democrats , i 've got some friends here who are republicans -- and i worked with in the state legislature and they did great work . but right now , what we ’ ve got in washington , we 've seen a sizable group of republican lawmakers suggest that they wouldn ’ t vote to pay the very bills that congress rang up . and that fiasco harmed a fragile recovery in 2011 and we ca n't afford to repeat that .
that story of self-determination began six months ago in tunisia . on december 17th , a young vendor named mohammed bouazizi was devastated when a police officer confiscated his cart . this was not unique . it ’ s the same kind of humiliation that takes place every day in many parts of the world -- the relentless tyranny of governments that deny their citizens dignity . only this time , something different happened . after local officials refused to hear his complaints , this young man , who had never been particularly active in politics , went to the headquarters of the provincial government , doused himself in fuel , and lit himself on fire .
but those of us who knew teddy and worked with him here -- people of both parties -- know that what drove him was something more . his friend orrin hatch -- he knows that . they worked together to provide children with health insurance . his friend john mccain knows that . they worked together on a patient 's bill of rights . his friend chuck grassley knows that . they worked together to provide health care to children with disabilities .
if congressional republicans refuse to pay america ’ s bills on time , social security checks and veterans ’ benefits will be delayed . we might not be able to pay our troops , or honor our contracts with small business owners .
that 's not how we make foreign policy . and if you look at the results of what we 've done over the last five years , it is fair to say that our alliances are stronger , our partnerships are stronger , and in the asia pacific region , just to take one example , we are much better positioned to work with the peoples here on a whole range of issues of mutual interest
i also have to say that you all are going to get wet . and i 'd be out there with you if i could . but secret service gets nervous . so i 'm going to have to stay here , dry . but know that i 'm there with you in spirit .
you know , last week , speaker of the house john boehner gave a speech about the economy . and to his credit , he made the point that we can ’ t afford the kind of politics that says it ’ s “ my way or the highway. ” i was encouraged by that .
i raise this point , i begin with this point because in many countries there is a deep ambivalence about military action today -- no matter what the cause . and at times , this is joined by a reflexive suspicion of america , the world 's sole military superpower .
and john kerry believes that in a dangerous world war must be an option sometimes , but it should never be the first option . you know , a while back -- awhile back i met a young man named shamus in a v.f.w . hall in east moline , illinois . he was a good-looking kid -- six two , six three , clear eyed , with an easy smile . he told me he ’ d joined the marines and was heading to iraq the following week . and as i listened to him explain why he ’ d enlisted , the absolute faith he had in our country and its leaders , his devotion to duty and service , i thought this young man was all that any of us might ever hope for in a child .
and so a fundamental part of our strategy for our security has to be america 's support for those universal rights that formed the creed of our founding . and we will promote these values above all by living them -- through our fidelity to the rule of law and our constitution , even when it 's hard ; even when we 're being attacked ; even when we 're in the midst of war .
we we 're putting in more money and we 've provided more pell grants and more tuition tax credits and simpler financial aid forms . we 've done all that , but parents still need to parent .
let 's be the generation that ends poverty in america . every single person willing to work should be able to get job training that leads to a job , and earn a living wage that can pay the bills , and afford child care so their kids can have a safe place to go when they work . we can do this .
second , we will work with our partners , the united nations , and the afghan people to pursue a more effective civilian strategy , so that the government can take advantage of improved security .
and it is a testimony to the hard work and dedication of the men and women of our intelligence community that over the past decade we ’ ve made enormous strides in fulfilling this mission . today , new capabilities allow intelligence agencies to track who a terrorist is in contact with , and follow the trail of his travel or his funding . new laws allow information to be collected and shared more quickly and effectively between federal agencies , and state and local law enforcement . relationships with foreign intelligence services have expanded , and our capacity to repel cyber-attacks have been strengthened . and taken together , these efforts have prevented multiple attacks and saved innocent lives -- not just here in the united states , but around the globe .
finally , we know that rebuilding our economy will require action on a great variety of fronts : from education and health care to energy and social security . without sound policies in these areas , we can neither enjoy sustained economic growth nor realize our full potential as a people . so i am extraordinarily pleased that melody barnes , one of the most respected policy experts in america , will serve as my director of domestic -- the domestic policy council , and that she will be working hand in hand with my economic policy team to chart a course to economic recovery . an integral part of that course will be health care reform , and she will work closely with my secretary of health and human services on that issue .
we still do not know who did this or why . and people shouldn ’ t jump to conclusions before we have all the facts . but make no mistake -- we will get to the bottom of this . and we will find out who did this ; we 'll find out why they did this . any responsible individuals , any responsible groups will feel the full weight of justice .
craig is working with the teams on the ground to make sure that we are seamlessly coordinating between the state , local and federal governments . and i want to just make a commitment to the communities here that we are going to do everything we can to help these communities rebuild .
the first part of this strategy is therefore the responsible removal of our combat brigades from iraq . as a candidate for president , i made clear my support for a timeline of 16 months to carry out this drawdown , while pledging to consult closely with our military commanders upon taking office to ensure that we preserve the gains we ’ ve made and protect our troops . those consultations are now complete , and i have chosen a timeline that will remove our combat brigades over the next 18 months .
and yet , we must acknowledge that even here , even in our military , we ’ ve seen how the misconduct of some can have effects that ripple far and wide . in our digital age , a single image from the battlefield of troops falling short of their standards can go viral and endanger our forces and undermine our efforts to achieve security and peace . likewise , those who commit sexual assault are not only committing a crime , they threaten the trust and discipline that make our military strong . that ’ s why we have to be determined to stop these crimes , because they ’ ve got no place in the greatest military on earth .
today , 60 years after they rose up against oppression , we remember the east german heroes of june 17th . when the wall finally came down , it was their dreams that were fulfilled . their strength and their passion , their enduring example remind us that for all the power of militaries , for all the authority of governments , it is citizens who choose whether to be defined by a wall , or whether to tear it down .
i 've talked about your parents ' responsibility for making sure you stay on track , and you get your homework done , and do n't spend every waking hour in front of the tv or with the xbox .
they knew him as somebody who kept his word . they knew him as somebody who was willing to take half a loaf and endure the anger of his own supporters to get something done . they knew him as somebody who was not afraid . and fear so permeates our politics , instead of hope . people fight to get in the senate and then they ’ re afraid . we fight to get these positions and then don ’ t want to do anything with them . and ted understood the only point of running for office was to get something done -- not to posture ; not to sit there worrying about the next election or the polls -- to take risks . he understood that differences of party or philosophy could not become barriers to cooperation or respect .
and the same is true for other priorities like transportation , and homeland security , and veterans programs for the men and women who have risked their lives for this country . this is not an exaggeration . check it out yourself .
and so often , when we insert ourselves in ways that go beyond persuasion , it 's counterproductive . it backfires . that 's been part of our history -- which is why countries keep on trying to use us as an excuse for their own governance failures . let ’ s take away the excuse . and let ’ s be clear that we 're prepared to partner and engage with everybody to try to lift up opportunity and prosperity and security for people in the region .
companies receiving federal aid are going to have to disclose publicly all the perks and luxuries bestowed upon senior executives , and provide an explanation to the taxpayers and to shareholders as to why these expenses are justified . and we 're putting a stop to these kinds of massive severance packages we 've all read about with disgust ; we 're taking the air out of golden parachutes .
this is the reality in which reverend wright and other african-americans of his generation grew up . they came of age in the late '50s and early '60s , a time when segregation was still the law of the land and opportunity was systematically constricted . what 's remarkable is not how many failed in the face of discrimination , but how many men and women overcame the odds , how many were able to make a way out of no way for those like me who would come after them .
thank you . this morning we woke up to more sobering news about the state of our economy . the 240,000 jobs lost in october marks the 10th consecutive month that our economy has shed jobs . in total , we 've lost nearly 1.2 million jobs this year , and more than 10 million americans are now unemployed . tens of millions of families are struggling to figure out how to pay the bills and stay in their homes . their stories are an urgent reminder that we are facing the greatest economic challenge of our lifetime , and we 're going to have to act swiftly to resolve it .
i have made it clear that america will not base our entire foreign policy on reacting to terrorism . instead , we ’ ve waged a focused campaign against al qaeda and its associated forces -- taking out their leaders , denying them the safe havens they rely on . at the same time , we have reaffirmed again and again that the united states is not and never will be at war with islam . islam teaches peace . muslims the world over aspire to live with dignity and a sense of justice . and when it comes to america and islam , there is no us and them , there is only us -- because millions of muslim americans are part of the fabric of our country .
and in each of these places , each of these leaders posed a simple question : how can we as a nation -- not just the government , but businesses and community groups and concerned citizens -- how can we all come together to help fathers meet their responsibilities to our families and communities ?
the sacrifices of war are immeasurable . too many have returned from iraq with that soldier ’ s story -- with broken bodies and shattered nerves and wounds that even the best care may not heal . too many of our best have come home shrouded in the flag they loved . too many moms and dads and husbands and wives have answered that knock on the door that ’ s hardest for any loved one to hear . and the rest of us have seen too many promises of swift victories and dying insurgencies and budding democracy giving way to the reality of a brutal civil war that goes on and on and on to this day .
america ’ s commitment to israel ’ s security flows from a deeper place -- and that ’ s the values we share . as two people who struggled to win our freedom against overwhelming odds , we understand that preserving the security for which our forefathers -- and foremothers -- fought must be the work of every generation . as two vibrant democracies , we recognize that the liberties and freedoms we cherish must be constantly nurtured . and as the nation that recognized the state of israel moments after its independence , we have a profound commitment to its survival as a strong , secure homeland for the jewish people .
and the question i have for you today is this : what is each -- what are each of you going to do to meet that responsibility ? now , right now you ’ re getting plenty of advice from everybody . some of it ’ s helpful . and so i hate to pile on with advice . but while i ’ m here -- what the heck . i figure i should offer a few thoughts based on my own experiences , but also based on my hopes for all of you , and for our country , in the years ahead .
as president , that 's exactly what i will demand . thank you very much . good morning , everybody . i wanted to take just a few minutes to update the american people on the attempted terrorist attack that occurred on christmas day and the steps we 're taking to ensure the safety and security of the country .
no one can be completely ready for this office . but america needs leaders who are willing to face the storm head on , even as they pray for god 's strength and wisdom so that they can do what they believe is right . and that ’ s what the leaders with whom i share this stage have all done . that ’ s what president george w. bush chose to do . that ’ s why i 'm honored to be part of today 's celebration .
today , as we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the civil rights act , we honor the men and women who made it possible . some of them are here today . we celebrate giants like john lewis and andrew young and julian bond . we recall the countless unheralded americans , black and white , students and scholars , preachers and housekeepers -- whose names are etched not on monuments , but in the hearts of their loved ones , and in the fabric of the country they helped to change .
i want to thank your great leadership team for welcoming me today : chairman ray dempsey -- absolutely -- incoming commander wally tyson . national adjutant art wilson . judy hezlep of the dav auxiliary . and your outstanding executive director in washington , dave gorman . and i am pleased to be joined by a decorated vietnam veteran , wounded warrior , and a lifetime member of the dav -- my outstanding secretary of veterans affairs , ric shinseki .
the ideology of isil or al qaeda or boko haram will wilt and die if it is consistently exposed and confronted and refuted in the light of day . look at the new forum for promoting peace in muslim societies -- sheikh bin bayyah described its purpose : “ we must declare war on war , so the outcome will be peace upon peace. ” look at the young british muslims who responded to terrorist propaganda by starting the “ notinmyname ” campaign , declaring , “ isis is hiding behind a false islam. ” look at the christian and muslim leaders who came together in the central african republic to reject violence ; listen to the imam who said , “ politics try to divide the religious in our country , but religion shouldn ’ t be a cause of hate , war , or strife . ”
so here ’ s the bottom line : there are no quick fixes . anybody who tells you otherwise isn ’ t telling you the truth . and we will keep on being a victim to shifts in the oil market until we finally get serious about a long-term policy for a secure , affordable energy future .
right now , there ’ s a woman , hunched over a sewing machine , glancing beyond the bars on the window , knowing if just given the chance , she might some day sell her own wares , but she doesn ’ t think anybody is paying attention .
and today , we salute all the americans who made the ultimate sacrifice in these wars , including 18 graduates of this academy . we honor them all , now and forever . yesterday , i spoke about the way forward in the fight to keep our country secure -- for even as we 've decimated the al qaeda leadership , we still face threats from al qaeda affiliates and from individuals caught up in its ideology . even as we move beyond deploying large ground armies abroad , we still need to conduct precise , targeted strikes against terrorists before they kill our citizens . and even as we stay vigilant in the face of terrorism and stay true to our constitution and our values , we need to stay ready for the full range of threats -- from nations seeking weapons of mass destruction to cyber criminals seeking to unleash weapons of mass destruction .
he was convicted in our courts and is serving a life sentence in u.s. prisons . zacarias moussaoui has been identified as the 20th 9/11 hijacker . he was convicted in our courts , and he too is serving a life sentence in prison .
and i want to again think everybody here for the extraordinary work that they ’ re putting in . you shouldn ’ t underestimate how hard these folks are working , day in , day out , on behalf of their constituencies .
now , to do that we have to recognize that we face more than a deficit of dollars right now . we face a deficit of trust -- deep and corrosive doubts about how washington works that have been growing for years . to close that credibility gap we have to take action on both ends of pennsylvania avenue -- to end the outsized influence of lobbyists ; to do our work openly ; to give our people the government they deserve .
so many of you at notre dame -- by the last count , upwards of 80 percent -- have lived this law of love through the service you 've performed at schools and hospitals , international relief agencies and local charities .
another way we can achieve savings is by reducing payments to hospitals for treating uninsured people . i know hospitals rely on these payments now , legitimately , because of the large number of uninsured patients that they treat . but if we put in a system where people have coverage and the number of uninsured people goes down with our reforms , the amount we pay hospitals to treat uninsured people should go down , as well . reducing these payments gradually , as more and more people have coverage , will save us over $ 106 billion . and we 'll make sure the difference goes to the hospitals that need it most .
now , what ’ s true for natural gas is just as true for clean energy . in three years , our partnership with the private sector has already positioned america to be the world ’ s leading manufacturer of high-tech batteries . because of federal investments , renewable energy use has nearly doubled , and thousands of americans have jobs because of it .
the conflict between israelis and arabs is as old as this institution . and we can come back here next year , as we have for the last 60 years , and make long speeches about it . we can read familiar lists of grievances . we can table the same resolutions . we can further empower the forces of rejectionism and hate . and we can waste more time by carrying forward an argument that will not help a single israeli or palestinian child achieve a better life . we can do that .
across afghanistan , we ’ ve broken the taliban ’ s momentum . in key regions , we ’ ve seized the momentum , pushing them out of their strongholds . we ’ re building the capacity of afghans , partnering with communities and police and security forces , which are growing stronger .
there are private construction companies all across america just waiting to get to work . there ’ s a bridge that needs repair between ohio and kentucky that ’ s on one of the busiest trucking routes in north america . a public transit project in houston that will help clear up one of the worst areas of traffic in the country . and there are schools throughout this country that desperately need renovating . how can we expect our kids to do their best in places that are literally falling apart ? this is america . every child deserves a great school -- and we can give it to them , if we act now .
they 're men and women like the soldier -- and soon to be veteran -- i met a few months ago , jacare hogan . jacare deployed to iraq twice , and she survived not one , but two -- excuse me , three separate ied explosions . and when she was well enough , she deployed again , this time to afghanistan , where she was often the only woman at our forward operating bases . she proudly wears the combat action badge . and today , jacare is committed to helping other wounded warriors recover from the trials of war . `` helping the troops , '' she says , `` is what i 'm all about . '' my fellow americans , that 's what we should be all about .
and then there ’ s the easter egg roll , which is supposed to be just a nice , fun event with the kids . i go out on the basketball court , took 22 shots -- made two of them . that ’ s right : two hits , 20 misses . the executives at nbc asked , “ what ’ s your secret ? ”
and yet , here , under the tutelage of men like dr. mays , young martin learned to be unafraid . and he , in turn , taught others to be unafraid . and over time , he taught a nation to be unafraid . and over the last 50 years , thanks to the moral force of dr. king and a moses generation that overcame their fear and their cynicism and their despair , barriers have come tumbling down , and new doors of opportunity have swung open , and laws and hearts and minds have been changed to the point where someone who looks just like you can somehow come to serve as president of these united states of america .
and by that measure , can we truly say , as a nation , that we are meeting our obligations ? can we honestly say that we ’ re doing enough to keep our children -- all of them -- safe from harm ? can we claim , as a nation , that we ’ re all together there , letting them know that they are loved , and teaching them to love in return ? can we say that we ’ re truly doing enough to give all the children of this country the chance they deserve to live out their lives in happiness and with purpose ?
so i want to be clear . you , the families of newtown , people across connecticut , you helped make that happen . your voices , your determination made that happen . obviously , the elected leaders did an extraordinary job moving it forward , but it could n't have happened if they were n't hearing from people in their respective districts , people all across the state . that 's the power of your voice .
because of them , we have broken the taliban ’ s momentum . because of them , we have built the capacity of afghan security forces . and because of them , we are now preparing to turn a corner in afghanistan by transitioning to afghan lead .
i have also directed secretary johnson and attorney general holder to identify additional actions my administration can take on our own , within my existing legal authorities , to do what congress refuses to do and fix as much of our immigration system as we can . if congress will not do their job , at least we can do ours . i expect their recommendations before the end of summer and i intend to adopt those recommendations without further delay .
third , i 'm calling on congress to consider a new program to provide incentives for consumers who retrofit their homes to become more energy-efficient , which we know creates jobs , saves money for families , and reduces the pollution that threatens our environment . and i 'm proposing that we expand select recovery act initiatives to promote energy efficiency and clean energy jobs which have been proven to be particularly popular and effective .
robert byrd was a mountain eagle , and his lowest swoop was still higher than the other birds upon the plain . may god bless robert c. byrd . may he be welcomed kindly by the righteous judge . and may his spirit soar forever like a catskill eagle , high above the heavens .
thank you . president obama : mabuhay . thank you , president aquino , for your warm welcome and your very kind words . with the president ’ s indulgence , i want to begin by saying a few words about some terrible storms and tornadoes back home in the united states . over the weekend , a series of storms claimed at least a dozen lives and damaged or destroyed homes and businesses and communities across multiple states , with the worst toll in arkansas . so i want to offer my deepest condolences to all those who lost loved ones . i commend the heroic efforts of first responders and neighbors who rushed to help .
i was proud to present with our nation ’ s highest military declaration , the medal of honor . i ’ ve seen your tenacity -- i ’ ve seen your tenacity and determination in our wounded warriors in landstuhl and walter reed -- americans fighting to stand again and to walk again and to get back with -- get back with their units ; incredible dedication , incredible focus , incredible pride .
these challenges are not all of government 's making . but the failure to respond is a direct result of a broken politics in washington and the failed policies of george w. bush . america , we are better than these last eight years . we are a better country than this . this country 's more decent than one woman in ohio on the brink of retirement finds herself one disaster after a lifetime of hard work .
now , so far , most of my republican friends in washington have refused under any circumstance to ask the wealthiest americans to go to the same tax rate they were paying when bill clinton was president . so let ’ s just do a trip down memory lane here .
america will host a summit in 2016 to continue our efforts to secure nuclear materials around the world , and we will work to build support in the united states to ratify the comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty , and call on all nations to begin negotiations on a treaty that ends the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons . these are steps we can take to create a world of peace with justice .
here we see the strength of free nations that stand united . across those centuries of struggle , poland ’ s fate too often was dictated by others . this land was invaded and conquered , carved up and occupied . but those days are over . poland understands as few other nations do that every nation must be free to chart its own course , to forge its own partnerships , to choose its own allies .
but know this : while the eyes of the world may have been fixed on places far away , our hearts have also been here in your time of tribulation . and even amidst such sorrow and so much pain , we recognize god ’ s abundance . we give thanks for the courage and the compassion and the incredible grace of the people of west .
now much has been made of the fact that an african american with the name barack hussein obama could be elected president . but my personal story is not so unique . the dream of opportunity for all people has not come true for everyone in america , but its promise exists for all who come to our shores -- and that includes nearly 7 million american muslims in our country today who , by the way , enjoy incomes and educational levels that are higher than the american average .
finally , and since this is a challenge that we can only meet together , i ’ m announcing that next month we ’ ll convene a white house summit on cybersecurity and consumer protection . it ’ s a white house summit where we 're not going to do it at the white house ; we 're going to go to stanford university . and it ’ s going to bring everybody together -- industry , tech companies , law enforcement , consumer and privacy advocates , law professors who are specialists in the field , as well as students -- to make sure that we work through these issues in a public , transparent fashion .
that brand of politics -- one that pits east against west , and south against north , muslims against christians and hindu and jews -- can ’ t deliver on the promise of freedom . to the youth , it offers only false hope . burning an american flag does nothing to provide a child an education . smashing apart a restaurant does not fill an empty stomach . attacking an embassy won ’ t create a single job . that brand of politics only makes it harder to achieve what we must do together : educating our children , and creating the opportunities that they deserve ; protecting human rights , and extending democracy ’ s promise .
the jews who insisted on fasting on yom kippur . the camp cook who hid potatoes in the lining of his prison uniform and distributed them to his fellow inmates , risking his own life to help save theirs .
i had a wonderful conversation with betsy markey . i do n't know if betsy is around here . there she is right there . betsy is in a tough district . the biggest newspaper is somewhat conservative , as betsy described . they weren ’ t real happy with health care reform . they were opposed to it . betsy , despite the pressure , announced that she was in favor of this bill . and lo and behold , the next day that same newspaper runs an editorial saying , you know what , we ’ ve considered this , we ’ ve looked at the legislation , and we actually are pleased that congresswoman markey is supporting the legislation .
i understand there ’ s a common fraternity creed here at morehouse : “ excuses are tools of the incompetent used to build bridges to nowhere and monuments of nothingness. ” well , we ’ ve got no time for excuses . not because the bitter legacy of slavery and segregation have vanished entirely ; they have not . not because racism and discrimination no longer exist ; we know those are still out there . it ’ s just that in today ’ s hyperconnected , hypercompetitive world , with millions of young people from china and india and brazil -- many of whom started with a whole lot less than all of you did -- all of them entering the global workforce alongside you , nobody is going to give you anything that you have not earned .
we should start with our tax code . right now , companies get tax breaks for moving jobs and profits overseas . meanwhile , companies that choose to stay in america get hit with one of the highest tax rates in the world . it makes no sense , and everyone knows it . so let ’ s change it .
he 'll be in their corner . that 's leadership . that 's a morehouse man right there that ’ s what we ’ ve come to expect from you , morehouse -- a legacy of leaders -- not just in our black community , but for the entire american community . to recognize the burdens you carry with you , but to resist the temptation to use them as excuses . to transform the way we think about manhood , and set higher standards for ourselves and for others . to be successful , but also to understand that each of us has responsibilities not just to ourselves , but to one another and to future generations . men who refuse to be afraid . men who refuse to be afraid .
and i think that there are going to be territorial disputes around the world . we have territorial disputes with some of our closest allies . i suspect that there are some islands and rocks in and around canada and the united states where there are probably still some arguments dating back to the 1800s . but we don ’ t go around sending ships and threatening folks . what we do is we sit down and we have some people in a room -- it ’ s boring , it ’ s not exciting , but it ’ s usually a good way to work out these problems and work out these issues .
this year , in this election we are called to reaffirm our values and our commitments , to hold them against a hard reality and see how we 're measuring up to the legacy of our forbearers and the promise of future generations .
the iranian people are trying to have a debate about their future . some in iran -- some in the iranian government , in particular , are trying to avoid that debate by accusing the united states and others in the west of instigating protests over the election . these accusations are patently false . they 're an obvious attempt to distract people from what is truly taking place within iran 's borders . this tired strategy of using old tensions to scapegoat other countries wo n't work anymore in iran . this is not about the united states or the west ; this is about the people of iran , and the future that they -- and only they -- will choose . the iranian people can speak for themselves . that 's precisely what 's happened in the last few days .
these reforms will help people get jobs that are open today . but to prepare for the jobs of tomorrow , our commitment to skills and education has to start earlier . for less than 1 percent of what our nation spends on education each year , we ’ ve convinced nearly every state in the country to raise their standards for teaching and learning -- the first time that ’ s happened in a generation .
we look forward to working with all who embrace genuine and inclusive democracy . what we will oppose is an attempt by any group to restrict the rights of others , and to hold power through coercion and not consent . because democracy depends not only on elections , but also strong and accountable institutions , and the respect for the rights of minorities .
“ unity , ” he said , “ is the great need of the hour. ” “ unity is the great need of the hour. ” unity is how we shall overcome what dr. king understood is that if just one person chose to walk instead of ri [ de ] the bus , those walls of oppression would not be moved . but maybe if a few more decided to walk , those foundations might start to shake .
it ’ s the right thing to do . it ’ s the right thing to do of course , nothing helps families make ends meet like higher wages . that ’ s why this congress still needs to pass a law that makes sure a woman is paid the same as a man for doing the same work . it ’ s 2015. it ’ s time . we still need to make sure employees get the overtime they ’ ve earned . and to everyone in this congress who still refuses to raise the minimum wage , i say this : if you truly believe you could work full-time and support a family on less than $ 15,000 a year , try it . if not , vote to give millions of the hardest-working people in america a raise .
so this afternoon , i ’ ll visit the university of central missouri to highlight their efforts to deliver more bang for the buck to their students . and in the coming months , i will lay out an aggressive strategy to shake up the system , tackle rising costs , and improve value for middle-class students and their families . it is critical that we make sure that college is affordable for every single american who ’ s willing to work for it .
what if we carried ourselves more like ted kennedy ? what if we worked to follow his example a little bit harder ? to his harshest critics , who saw him as nothing more than a partisan lightning rod -- that may sound foolish , but there are republicans here today for a reason . they know who ted kennedy was . it ’ s not because they shared ted ’ s ideology or his positions , but because they knew ted as somebody who bridged the partisan divide over and over and over again , with genuine effort and affection , in an era when bipartisanship has become so very rare .
now the rest of us -- the rest of us must do our part . and to do so , we must first recognize that our strength and influence abroad begins with steps we take at home . we must educate our children to compete in an age where knowledge is capital , and the marketplace is global . we must develop clean energy that can power new industry and unbound us from foreign oil and preserve our planet . we have to pursue science and research that unlocks wonders as unforeseen to us today as the microchip and the surface of the moon were a century ago .
you have to be willing to lose an election because you think that there ’ s something that 's more important than you just winning an election . and if you do that now -- but you have to -- you should try to win .
this broader obligation can take many forms . at a time when the cost of hiring workers in china is rising rapidly , it should mean more ceos deciding that it ’ s time to bring jobs back to the united states -- not just because it ’ s good for business , but because it ’ s good for the country that made their business and their personal success possible .
and if even at those lower rates and better insurance that you 're getting through these marketplaces you still ca n't afford it , you 're going to be getting tax cuts and tax credits through the affordable care act that will help you afford it . and that 's how we 're going to make sure that millions of people who do n't currently have health insurance or are getting a really bad deal on their health insurance are finally going to get it .
all right . i ’ m going to take one last question . jackie calmes . q thank you , mr. president . the president : yes . q i ’ d like to ask you , now that you ’ ve reached the end of your first term , starting your second , about a couple of criticisms -- one that ’ s longstanding , another more recent . the longstanding one seems to have become a truism of sorts that you ’ re -- you and your staff are too insular , that you don ’ t socialize enough . and the second , the more recent criticism is that your team taking shape isn ’ t diverse -- isn ’ t as diverse as it could be , or even was , in terms of getting additional voices , gender , race , ethnic diversity . so i ’ d like you to address both of those .
with respect to this “ truism ” about me not socializing enough and patting folks on the back and all that stuff , most people who know me know i ’ m a pretty friendly guy . and i like a good party . and the truth is that when i was in the senate , i had great relationships over there , and up until the point that i became president this was not an accusation that you heard very frequently .
and when president lincoln was finally told of all the metal being used here , his response was short and clear : that is as it should be . the american people needed to be reminded , he believed , that even in a time of war , the work would go on ; the people 's business would continue ; that even when the nation itself was in doubt , its future was being secured ; and that on that distant day , when the guns fell silent , a national capitol would stand , with a statue of freedom at its peak , as a symbol of unity in a land still mending its divisions .
we also recall how you prevailed 25 years ago . in the face of beatings and bullets , you never wavered from the moral force of nonviolence . through the darkness of martial law , poles lit candles in their windows . when the regime finally agreed to talk , you embraced dialogue . when they held those elections -- even though not fully free -- you participated . as one solidarity leader said at the time , “ we decided to accept what was possible. ” poland reminds us that sometimes the smallest steps , however imperfect , can ultimately tear down walls , can ultimately transform the world .
we do a disservice to the cause of justice by intimating that bias and discrimination are immutable , that racial division is inherent to america . if you think nothing ’ s changed in the past 50 years , ask somebody who lived through the selma or chicago or los angeles of the 1950s . ask the female ceo who once might have been assigned to the secretarial pool if nothing ’ s changed . ask your gay friend if it ’ s easier to be out and proud in america now than it was thirty years ago . to deny this progress , this hard-won progress -– our progress -- would be to rob us of our own agency , our own capacity , our responsibility to do what we can to make america better .
and then just the other day , my dear friend , hillary clinton , pulled me aside and she gave me a pep talk . she said , despite the numbers , she said , `` do n't worry , barack , you 're likeable enough . '' which made me feel better .
and i know there are republicans and democrats in congress who want to see a balanced approach to deficit reduction . and even those republicans i disagree with most strongly i believe are sincere about wanting to do right by their country . we may disagree on our visions , but i truly believe they want to do the right thing .
this is the bond that we share . it ’ s why we insist that nothing ever justifies the slaughter of innocent men , women and children . it ’ s why we ’ re working together , more closely than ever , to prevent terrorist attacks and to deepen our cooperation even further . and it ’ s why , as strong and resilient societies , we refuse to live in fear . we will not sacrifice the values and rule of law that defines us , and we will never waver in the defense of our people .
but communities don ’ t always know the signs to look for , or have the tools to intervene , or know what works best . and that ’ s where government can play a role -- if government is serving as a trusted partner . and that ’ s where we also need to be honest . i know some muslim americans have concerns about working with government , particularly law enforcement . and their reluctance is rooted in the objection to certain practices where muslim americans feel they ’ ve been unfairly targeted .
an ancient civilization of science and innovation ; a fundamental faith in human progress -- this is the sturdy foundation upon which you have built ever since that stroke of midnight when the tricolor was raised over a free and independent india . and despite the skeptics who said this country was simply too poor , or too vast , or too diverse to succeed , you surmounted overwhelming odds and became a model to the world .
i don ’ t want to drum up any kind of rivalry here , but now , the pentagon isn ’ t seeking these alternative fuels just to protect our environment ; they ’ re pursuing these homegrown energy sources to protect our national security . our military leaders recognize the security imperative of increasing the use of alternative fuels , decreasing energy use , reducing our reliance on imported oil , making ourselves more energy-efficient . that ’ s why the navy , led by secretary mabus , who ’ s here today , has set a goal of using 50-percent alternative fuels in all planes , vehicles , and ships in the next 10 years . that ’ s why the defense department has invested 2.7 billion dollars this year alone to improve energy efficiency .
today , latin america is democratic . virtually all the people of latin america have gone from living under dictatorships to living in democracies . across the region , we see vibrant democracies , from mexico to chile to costa rica . we ’ ve seen historic peaceful transfers of power , from el salvador to uruguay to paraguay . the work of perfecting our democracies , of course , is never truly done , but this is the outstanding progress that ’ s been made here in the americas .
let me be clear , these terms are not negotiable . these terms are not subject to negotiation . if qaddafi does not comply with the resolution , the international community will impose consequences , and the resolution will be enforced through military action .
the cold war has been over for a long time . and i ’ m not interested in having battles that , frankly , started before i was born . what i am interested in is solving problems , working with you . that ’ s what the united states is interested in doing . that ’ s why we ’ ve invested so much in our bilateral relationships , and that ’ s why i will continue to invest in creating the kind of spirit of equal partnership and mutual interest and mutual respect upon which i believe progress can advance .
and something else happened during the time i spent in these neighborhoods , perhaps because the church folks i worked with were so welcoming and understanding ; perhaps because they invited me to their services and sang with me from their hymnals ; perhaps because i was really broke and they fed me ; perhaps because i witnessed all of the good works their faith inspired them to perform , i found myself drawn not just to the work with the church ; i was drawn to be in the church . it was through this service that i was brought to christ .
one man from illinois lost his coverage in the middle of chemotherapy because his insurer found that he had n't reported gallstones that he did n't even know about . they delayed his treatment , and he died because of it . another woman from texas was about to get a double mastectomy when her insurance company canceled her policy because she forgot to declare a case of acne . by the time she had her insurance reinstated , her breast cancer had more than doubled in size . that is heart-breaking , it is wrong , and no one should be treated that way in the united states of america .
and that ’ s what you ’ ve taught us , boston . that ’ s what you ’ ve reminded us -- to push on . to persevere . to not grow weary . to not get faint . even when it hurts . even when our heart aches . we summon the strength that maybe we didn ’ t even know we had , and we carry on . we finish the race . we finish the race .
thank you . god bless you . and god bless the united states of america . good morning . and thank you to everyone who worked to bring us to this day , especially the international auschwitz council and the auschwitz-birkenau state museum .
but we also have to ensure that we 're educating and preparing our people for the new jobs of the 21st century . we 've got to prepare our people with the skills they need to compete in this global economy . time and again , when we placed our bet for the future on education , we have prospered as a result -- by tapping the incredible innovative and generative potential of a skilled american workforce . that 's what happened when president lincoln signed into law legislation creating the land grant colleges , which not only transformed higher education , but also our entire economy . that 's what took place when president roosevelt signed the gi bill which helped educate a generation , and ushered in an era of unprecedented prosperity . that was the foundation for the american middle class .
and if china i think listens to its neighbors and recognizes that there ’ s another approach to resolve these disputes , what china will find is they ’ ve got ready and willing partners throughout the asia pacific region that want to work with them on trade and commerce and selling goods and buying goods . and it ’ s inevitable that china is going to be a dominant power in this region just by sheer size . nobody , i think , denies that . the question is just whether other countries in the region are also able to succeed and prosper on their own terms and tend to the various interests and needs that they and their people have as well . and that ’ s what we support .
in the last week , that ’ s what joplin has not just taught missouri , not just taught america , but has taught the world . i was overseas in the aftermath of the storm , and had world leaders coming up to me saying , let the people of joplin know we are with them ; we ’ re thinking about them ; we love them .
as the tide of war recedes , a wave of change has washed across the middle east and north africa , from tunis to cairo ; from sana ’ a to tripoli . a year ago , qaddafi was one of the world ’ s longest-serving dictators -- a murderer with american blood on his hands . today , he is gone . and in syria , i have no doubt that the assad regime will soon discover that the forces of change can not be reversed , and that human dignity can not be denied .
so i say all this because these six years have demanded a lot of hard work and a lot of sacrifice on everybody ’ s part . and as a country , we ’ ve got every right to be proud of what we ’ ve got to show for it . america ’ s resurgence is real . and now that we ’ ve seen calmer waters economically , if we all do our part , if we all pitch in , then we can start making sure that all boats are actually lifted again , and wages and incomes start rising again . and we can make sure that the middle class is the engine that powers america ’ s prosperity just as it always has .
and this is important , because the health of our economy depends in part on what we do right now to create the conditions where businesses can hire and middle-class families can feel a basic measure of economic security . but in the long run , our prosperity also depends on our ability to pay down the massive debt we ’ ve accumulated over the past decade in a way that allows us to meet our responsibilities to each other and to the future .
but you know what , i know a lot of really good scientists at nasa , and at noaa , and at our major universities . and the best scientists in the world are all telling us that our activities are changing the climate , and if we don ’ t act forcefully , we ’ ll continue to see rising oceans , longer , hotter heat waves , dangerous droughts and floods , and massive disruptions that can trigger greater migration and conflict and hunger around the globe .
this larger debate that we ’ re having -- this larger debate about the size and the role of government -- it has been with us since our founding days . and during moments of great challenge and change , like the one that we ’ re living through now , the debate gets sharper and it gets more vigorous . that ’ s not a bad thing . in fact , it ’ s a good thing . as a country that prizes both our individual freedom and our obligations to one another , this is one of the most important debates that we can have .
this immediate danger is eclipsed only by the long-term threat from climate change , which will lead to devastating weather patterns , terrible storms , drought , and famine . that means people competing for food and water in the next fifty years in the very places that have known horrific violence in the last fifty : africa , the middle east , and south asia . most disastrously , that could mean destructive storms on our shores , and the disappearance of our coastline .
having said that , we must recognize that these detention policies can not be unbounded . they ca n't be based simply on what i or the executive branch decide alone . that 's why my administration has begun to reshape the standards that apply to ensure that they are in line with the rule of law .
but we ca n't just raise revenues . we 're also going to have to make spending cuts , in part by examining inefficiencies in our current medicare program . there are going to be robust debates about where these cuts should be made , and i welcome that debate . but here 's where i think these cuts should be made .
that 's always been the american promise . that 's what jfk meant when he said , `` a rising tide lifts all boats . '' too many boats have been left behind , stuck in the mud
now , if you ’ re one of the 30 million americans who don ’ t yet have health insurance , starting in 2014 this law will offer you an array of quality , affordable , private health insurance plans to choose from . each state will take the lead in designing their own menu of options , and if states can come up with even better ways of covering more people at the same quality and cost , this law allows them to do that , too . and i ’ ve asked congress to help speed up that process , and give states this flexibility in year one .
we may have different takes on the events of ferguson and new york . but surely we can understand a father who fears his son can ’ t walk home without being harassed . and surely we can understand the wife who won ’ t rest until the police officer she married walks through the front door at the end of his shift . and surely we can agree that it ’ s a good thing that for the first time in 40 years , the crime rate and the incarceration rate have come down together , and use that as a starting point for democrats and republicans , community leaders and law enforcement , to reform america ’ s criminal justice system so that it protects and serves all of us .
and i 'm not going to be able to do it by myself . ultimately if this effort is to succeed it ’ s going to require the help of the american people -- it ’ s going to require all of you . if we 're going to change things , it ’ s going to take a wave of americans -- mothers and fathers , daughters and sons , pastors , law enforcement , mental health professionals -- and , yes , gun owners -- standing up and saying “ enough ” on behalf of our kids .
with such an effort , we can make sure our criminal justice system serves all and not just some . together , we can raise the level of mutual trust that policing is built on -- the idea that police officers are members of the community they risk their lives to protect , and citizens in ferguson and new york and cleveland , they just want the same thing young people here marched for 50 years ago -– the protection of the law . together , we can address unfair sentencing and overcrowded prisons , and the stunted circumstances that rob too many boys of the chance to become men , and rob the nation of too many men who could be good dads , and good workers , and good neighbors .
president obama : well , let me repeat what i said earlier . i think that it is good for the region and good for the world if china is successfully developing , if china is lifting more of its people out of poverty . there are a lot of people in china , and the more they ’ re able to develop and provide basic needs for their people and work cooperatively with other countries in the region , that ’ s only going to strengthen the region -- that ’ s not going to weaken it .
and he closed his letter by describing himself as [ a ] prisoner for christ , who is proud to be part of this great nation of the united states of america that cares for religious freedom around the world .
warren and giovanni were aid workers in pakistan devoted to improving the lives of the pakistani people . after warren was abducted by al qaeda in 2011 , i directed my national security team to do everything possible to find him and to bring him home safely to his family . and dedicated professionals across our government worked tirelessly to do so . we also worked closely with our italian allies on behalf of giovanni , who was kidnapped in 2012 .
so let 's make that decision easier for more companies . both democrats and republicans have argued that our tax code is riddled with wasteful , complicated loopholes that punish businesses investing here , and reward companies that keep profits abroad . let 's flip that equation . let 's work together to close those loopholes , end those incentives to ship jobs overseas , and lower tax rates for businesses that create jobs here at home .
so i want you to know , i want every american serving in afghanistan , military and civilian , to know , whether you ’ re working the flight line here at bagram or patrolling a village down in helmand , whether you ’ re standing watch at a forward operating base or training our afghan partners or working with the afghan government , your services are absolutely necessary , absolutely essential to america ’ s safety and security . those folks back home are relying on you .
so this is going to be a priority for me . and i know , based on your responses , it 's a priority for you . and i look forward to working with you . and it 's going to be difficult . but all this stuff is going to be difficult . all of it 's going to be important .
now , i understand that this war has been long . our allies have already contributed greatly to this endeavor . you 've sent your sons and daughters to fight alongside ours , and we honor and respect their service and sacrifice .
i must be honest , though . we 're far more likely to invest our energy in those countries that want to work with us , that invest in their people instead of a corrupt few ; that embrace a vision of society where everyone can contribute -- men and women , shia or sunni , muslim , christian or jew . because from europe to asia , from africa to the americas , nations that have persevered on a democratic path have emerged more prosperous , more peaceful , and more invested in upholding our common security and our common humanity . and i believe that the same will hold true for the arab world .
for the past six years we 've been told that our mounting debts do n't matter . we 've been told that the anxiety americans feel about rising health care costs and stagnant wages are an illusion . we 've been told that climate change is a hoax . we 've been told that tough talk and an ill-conceived war can replace diplomacy , and strategy , and foresight . and when all else fails , when katrina happens , or the death toll in iraq mounts , we 've been told that our crises are somebody else 's fault . we 're distracted from our real failures , and told to blame the other party , or gay people , or immigrants .
that ’ s how women won the right to vote . that ’ s how workers won the right to organize . that ’ s how young people and old people and middle-aged folks were willing to walk instead of ride the bus , and folks came down on freedom rides .
imagine if we broke out of these tired old patterns . imagine if we did something different . understand , a better politics isn ’ t one where democrats abandon their agenda or republicans simply embrace mine . a better politics is one where we appeal to each other ’ s basic decency instead of our basest fears . a better politics is one where we debate without demonizing each other ; where we talk issues and values , and principles and facts , rather than “ gotcha ” moments , or trivial gaffes , or fake controversies that have nothing to do with people ’ s daily lives .
i also want to single out someone who very much wanted to be here , just as he was every day for nearly 25 years as he represented this commonwealth alongside ted in the senate -- and that 's secretary of state john kerry . as many of you know , john is in europe with our allies and partners , leading the negotiations with iran and the world community , and standing up for a principle that ted and his brother , president kennedy , believed in so strongly : “ let us never negotiate out of fear , but let us never fear to negotiate . ”
and that includes something else -- making sure bp pays for the damages that it has caused -- ( applause ) -- because this isn ’ t just an environmental disaster . for many families and communities , it ’ s an economic disaster . here in pensacola and the panhandle , tourism is everything . and when the tourists stay home , it ripples out and hits folks across these communities -- the charter boats , the hotels , the restaurants , the roadside stores , the shops , the suppliers , the dive shops . and if your inland waters are contaminated -- if the bays and bayous are contaminated -- it could be devastating , changing the way of life down here for years to come .
now , stopping illegal immigration must go hand in hand with reforming our creaky system of legal immigration . we ’ ve begun to do that , by eliminating a backlog in background checks that at one point stretched back almost a year . that ’ s just for the background check . people can now track the status of their immigration applications by email or text message . we ’ ve improved accountability and safety in the detention system . and we ’ ve stemmed the increases in naturalization fees . but here , too , we need to do more . we should make it easier for the best and the brightest to come to start businesses and develop products and create jobs .
but there ’ s a reason the tragedy in tucson gave us pause . amid all the noise and passion and rancor of our public debate , tucson reminded us that no matter who we are or where we come from , each of us is a part of something greater -– something more consequential than party or political preference .
over the last two days , i ’ ve reaffirmed the bonds between our countries with prime minister netanyahu and president peres . i ’ ve borne witness to the ancient history of the jewish people at the shrine of the book , and i ’ ve seen israel ’ s shining future in your scientists and your entrepreneurs . this is a nation of museums and patents , timeless holy sites and ground-breaking innovation . only in israel could you see the dead sea scrolls and the place where the technology on board the mars rover originated at the same time .
so all of us -- government and industry -- are going to have to keep doing better . the new legislation and proposals i put forward yesterday will help , especially for a strong , single national standard for notifying americans when their information has been breached . today , i want to announce some additional steps .
and so our nation went to war . we have now been at war for well over a decade . i won ’ t review the full history . what is clear is that we quickly drove al qaeda out of afghanistan , but then shifted our focus and began a new war in iraq . and this carried significant consequences for our fight against al qaeda , our standing in the world , and -- to this day -- our interests in a vital region .
we know that the nation that goes all-in on innovation today will own the global economy tomorrow . this is an edge america can not surrender . federally-funded research helped lead to the ideas and inventions behind google and smartphones . that 's why congress should undo the damage done by last year 's cuts to basic research so we can unleash the next great american discovery -- whether it 's vaccines that stay ahead of drug-resistant bacteria , or paper-thin material that 's stronger than steel . and let 's pass a patent reform bill that allows our businesses to stay focused on innovation , not costly , needless litigation .
i make this claim not simply as a matter of idealism . we uphold our most cherished values not only because doing so is right , but because it strengthens our country and it keeps us safe . time and again , our values have been our best national security asset -- in war and peace ; in times of ease and in eras of upheaval .
we can not know for certain how long we have here . we can not foresee the trials or misfortunes that will test us along the way . we can not know god 's plan for us .
we ca n't wait to relieve the burden of crushing health care costs . we ca n't wait to create millions of new jobs by rebuilding our roads and our bridges , and investing in broadband lines in rural communities , and fixing our electricity grid so we can get renewable energy to population centers that need them . and we need to develop an energy policy that prevents us from sending 700 billion dollars a year to tyrants and dictators for their oil . we ca n't wait to educate the next generation of americans with the skills and knowledge they need to compete with any workers anywhere in the world . these are the priorities we can not delay .
one final thing -- as we go forward , we ’ ll continue to consult with congress and coordinate closely with our allies and partners . and as americans , we will continue to show gratitude to our men and women in uniform who are conducting our operations there . when called , they were ready -- as they always are . when given their mission , they ’ ve performed with distinction -- as they always do . and when we see them serving with such honor and compassion , defending our fellow citizens and saving the lives of people they ’ ve never met , it makes us proud to be americans -- as we always will be .
but if you do push yourselves , if you build on what you 've already accomplished here , then i could n't be more confident about your futures . i 'm hopeful and i 'm excited about what all of you can achieve . and i know that armed with the skills and experience and the love that you 've gained at booker t. washington high school , you 're ready to make your mark on the world .
and this is important , not just for businesses and colleges , but for students and workers , as well . if a parent is going to spend time in the classroom and away from his or her family -- especially after a long day at work -- that degree really has to mean something .
somewhere today , in the here and now , in the world as it is , a soldier sees he 's outgunned , but stands firm to keep the peace . somewhere today , in this world , a young protestor awaits the brutality of her government , but has the courage to march on . somewhere today , a mother facing punishing poverty still takes the time to teach her child , scrapes together what few coins she has to send that child to school -- because she believes that a cruel world still has a place for that child 's dreams .
the future must not belong to those corrupt few who steal a country ’ s resources -- it must be won by the students and entrepreneurs , the workers and business owners who seek a broader prosperity for all people . those are the women and men that america stands with ; theirs is the vision we will support .
since i ’ ve been president , this is the fourth time we have come together to comfort a grieving community torn apart by a mass shooting . the fourth time we ’ ve hugged survivors . the fourth time we ’ ve consoled the families of victims . and in between , there have been an endless series of deadly shootings across the country , almost daily reports of victims , many of them children , in small towns and big cities all across america -- victims whose -- much of the time , their only fault was being in the wrong place at the wrong time .
so we need to do a few things to provide affordable health insurance to every single american . the first thing we need to do is to protect what 's working in our health care system . so just in case you did n't catch it the first time , let me repeat : if you like your health care system and your doctor , the only thing reform will mean to you is your health care will cost less . if anyone says otherwise , they are either trying to mislead you or do n't have their facts straight .
well , here ’ s why . even after our economy recovers , our government will still be on track to spend more money than it takes in throughout this decade and beyond . that means we ’ ll have to keep borrowing more from countries like china . that means more of your tax dollars each year will go towards paying off the interest on all the loans that we keep taking out . by the end of this decade , the interest that we owe on our debt could rise to nearly $ 1 trillion . think about that . that 's the interest -- just the interest payments .
anyone who tells you otherwise , anyone who tells you that america is in decline or that our influence has waned , doesn ’ t know what they ’ re talking about . that ’ s not the message we get from leaders around the world who are eager to work with us . that ’ s not how people feel from tokyo to berlin , from cape town to rio , where opinions of america are higher than they ’ ve been in years . yes , the world is changing . no , we can ’ t control every event . but america remains the one indispensable nation in world affairs -- and as long as i ’ m president , i intend to keep it that way .
second , in tackling the deficit issue , we simply can not sacrifice the long-term investments that we so desperately need to generate long-term prosperity . that 's the argument that some critics have made : well , you 're proposing health care reform , you should n't be doing that ; you 're proposing education investments , you should n't be doing that , that adds to the deficit .
recently , russia ’ s actions in ukraine challenge this post-war order . here are the facts . after the people of ukraine mobilized popular protests and calls for reform , their corrupt president fled . against the will of the government in kyiv , crimea was annexed . russia poured arms into eastern ukraine , fueling violent separatists and a conflict that has killed thousands . when a civilian airliner was shot down from areas that these proxies controlled , they refused to allow access to the crash for days . when ukraine started to reassert control over its territory , russia gave up the pretense of merely supporting the separatists , and moved troops across the border .
america should be in a race to the top . and i believe we can win that race in fact , this larger notion that the only thing we can do to restore prosperity is just dismantle government , refund everybody ’ s money , and let everyone write their own rules , and tell everyone they ’ re on their own -- that ’ s not who we are . that ’ s not the story of america .
as i made clear in australia , we will be strengthening our presence in the asia pacific , and budget reductions will not come at the expense of that critical region . we 're going to continue investing in our critical partnerships and alliances , including nato , which has demonstrated time and again -- most recently in libya -- that it 's a force multiplier . we will stay vigilant , especially in the middle east .
but along with collective responsibilities , we have individual responsibilities . there are some things , as black men , we can only do for ourselves . there are some things , as morehouse men , that you are obliged to do for those still left behind . as morehouse men , you now wield something even more powerful than the diploma you ’ re about to collect -- and that ’ s the power of your example .
but they also understood that the danger of too much government is matched by the perils of too little ; that without the leavening hand of wise policy , markets can crash , monopolies can stifle competition , the vulnerable can be exploited .
but i just have to be honest with you . there are too many republicans in congress right now who refuse to compromise even an inch when it comes to closing tax loopholes and special interest tax breaks . and that 's what 's holding things up right now .
and those of you who worked with me , reverend love , you remember , it wasn ’ t easy . progress didn ’ t come quickly . sometimes i got so discouraged i thought about just giving up .
you 've challenged yourself intellectually in the sciences and the humanities , in history and technology . you 've achieved a standard of academic excellence that is without question , tying the record for the most post-graduate scholarships of any class in west point history .
we must never forget those who we lost so tragically on 9/11 , and we must always honor those who led the response to that attack -- from the firefighters who charged up smoke-filled staircases , to our troops who are serving in afghanistan today . and let us also remember who we ’ re fighting against , and what we ’ re fighting for . our enemies respect no religious freedom . al qaeda ’ s cause is not islam -- it ’ s a gross distortion of islam . these are not religious leaders -- they ’ re terrorists who murder innocent men and women and children . in fact , al qaeda has killed more muslims than people of any other religion -- and that list of victims includes innocent muslims who were killed on 9/11 .
this is how the international community is supposed to work -- nations standing together for the sake of peace and security , and individuals claiming their rights . now , all of us have a responsibility to support the new libya -- the new libyan government as they confront the challenge of turning this moment of promise into a just and lasting peace for all libyans .
and real reform means fixing the legal immigration system to cut waiting periods and attract the highly-skilled entrepreneurs and engineers that will help create jobs and grow our economy . in other words , we know what needs to be done . and as we speak , bipartisan groups in both chambers are working diligently to draft a bill , and i applaud their efforts . so let ’ s get this done . send me a comprehensive immigration reform bill in the next few months , and i will sign it right away . and america will be better for it . let ’ s get it done . let ’ s get it done .
it is important to understand , though , that the old individual market was not working well . and it ’ s important that we don ’ t pretend that somehow that ’ s a place worth going back to . too often , it works fine as long as you stay healthy ; it doesn ’ t work well when you ’ re sick . so year after year , americans were routinely exposed to financial ruin , or denied coverage due to minor preexisting conditions , or dropped from coverage altogether -- even if they paid their premiums on time .
as the cleanup continues , we will offer whatever additional resources and assistance our coastal states may need . now , a mobilization of this speed and magnitude will never be perfect , and new challenges will always arise . i saw and heard evidence of that during this trip . so if something isn ’ t working , we want to hear about it . if there are problems in the operation , we will fix them .
and that is why the same old washington textbook campaigns just won ’ t do in this election . that ’ s why not answering questions ‘ cause we are afraid our answers won ’ t be popular just won ’ t do.that ’ s why telling the american people what we think they want to hear instead of telling the american people what they need to hear just won ’ t do . triangulating and poll-driven positions because we ’ re worried about what mitt or rudy might say about us just won ’ t do . if we are really serious about wining this election democrats , we can ’ t live in fear of losing it .
our nations have known difficult times together . but ours is a bond forged by shared bloodshed , and countless friendships among our people . we americans have offered our most precious resource -- our young men and women -- to work with you to rebuild what was destroyed by despotism ; to root out our common enemies ; and to seek peace and prosperity for our children and grandchildren , and for yours .
every american should have the right to go as far as their talents and hard work will take them . that is what college is all about . that is what america is all about . and you embody that basic notion . you are that talent . you are an embodiment of what we hope for : a country that says that everybody , rich , poor , black , white , hispanic , asian , gay , straight , man , woman , with disabilities , without -- no matter who you are or where you come from , not only can you succeed but you can help everybody else succeed . that ’ s the promise that helped us become the greatest nation in the world . that ’ s the promise that i need you working for .
i am deeply aware of the risks of any military action , no matter what limits we place on it . i want the american people to know that the use of force is not our first choice and it ’ s not a choice that i make lightly . but we can not stand idly by when a tyrant tells his people that there will be no mercy , and his forces step up their assaults on cities like benghazi and misurata , where innocent men and women face brutality and death at the hands of their own government .
citizenship means standing up for the lives that gun violence steals from us each day . i have seen the courage of parents , students , pastors , and police officers all over this country who say `` we are not afraid , '' and i intend to keep trying , with or without congress , to help stop more tragedies from visiting innocent americans in our movie theaters , shopping malls , or schools like sandy hook .
i agree with the mexican student who said , “ i feel like we can reach the same level as anyone in the world. ” that 's absolutely true . and so i firmly believe -- juntos , podemos lograr más -- together , we can achieve more . so with the remainder of my time today , i want to focus on five areas where we can do more .
so as we replace oil with fuels like natural gas and biofuels , we can also reduce our dependence by making cars and trucks that use less oil in the first place . seventy percent of our petroleum consumption goes to transportation -- 70 percent . and by the way , so does the second biggest chunk of most families ’ budgets goes into transportation . and that ’ s why one of the best ways to make our economy less dependent on oil and save folks more money is to make our transportation sector more efficient .
all of us will be called upon to make some sacrifice . none of us will be exempt from responsibility . we 've had to fight to fix our schools , but we also have to challenge ourselves to be better parents , and turn off the television set , and put away the video game , and our men have to be home with our children .
this was not always the case . in world war i , american gis were among the many thousands killed by deadly gas in the trenches of europe . in world war ii , the nazis used gas to inflict the horror of the holocaust . because these weapons can kill on a mass scale , with no distinction between soldier and infant , the civilized world has spent a century working to ban them . and in 1997 , the united states senate overwhelmingly approved an international agreement prohibiting the use of chemical weapons , now joined by 189 governments that represent 98 percent of humanity .
now , that 's not to say that everything is going to go perfectly right away . when you 're implementing a program this large , there will be some glitches . there are going to be some hiccups . but no matter what , every single consumer will be covered by the new benefits and protections under this law permanently .
but of all these achievements and experience , none has been more pertinent to today 's challenges or closer to regina 's heart than the rural health clinic that she has built and rebuilt in bayou la batre -- did i say that right ? well , tell me how to say it .
but we all know that today , we have an immigration system that ’ s out of date and badly broken ; a system that ’ s holding us back instead of helping us grow our economy and strengthen our middle class .
for much of my tenure as president , some of our most urgent challenges have revolved around an increasingly integrated global economy , and our efforts to recover from the worst economic crisis of our lifetime . now , five years after the global economy collapsed , and thanks to coordinated efforts by the countries here today , jobs are being created , global financial systems have stabilized , and people are once again being lifted out of poverty . but this progress is fragile and unequal , and we still have work to do together to assure that our citizens can access the opportunities that they need to thrive in the 21st century .
thank you . god bless you . god bless the united states of america . thank you . thank you . thank you . everybody , please have a seat . well , thank you so much , zin mar , for your introduction and for your example and your commitment to build a free and open press in myanmar , and all the hope that you represent . please give her a big round of applause . she did an outstanding job .
as far as they 're concerned , no one handed them anything ; they built it from scratch . they 've worked hard all their lives , many times only to see their jobs shipped overseas or their pensions dumped after a lifetime of labor .
i also directed my counterterrorism and homeland security advisor john brennan to lead a thorough review into our terrorist watch-listing system so we can fix what went wrong . as we discussed today , this ongoing review continues to reveal more about the human and systemic failures that almost cost nearly 300 lives . we will make a summary of this preliminary report public within the next few days , but let me share some of what we know so far .
when we respect the faiths practiced in our churches and synagogues , our mosques and our temples , we 're more secure . when we welcome the immigrant with his talents or her dreams , we are renewed . when we stand up for our gay and lesbian brothers and sisters and treat their love and their rights equally under the law , we defend our own liberty as well . we are more free when all people can pursue their own happiness . and as long as walls exist in our hearts to separate us from those who don ’ t look like us , or think like us , or worship as we do , then we 're going to have to work harder , together , to bring those walls of division down .
so if you think about my first four years , the person who probably had the most influence on my foreign policy was a woman . the people who were in charge of moving forward my most important domestic initiative , health care , were women . the person in charge of our homeland security was a woman . my two appointments to the supreme court were women , and 50 percent of my white house staff were women . so i think people should expect that that record will be built upon during the next four years .
and the other thing we 've got to do is to stop having these crises manufactured every month . it seems like -- i know you guys must get tired of it . didn ’ t we just solve this thing ? now we 've got another thing coming up ? i mean , think about if mike petters ran his business this way -- once every month or two there would be some crisis , and you wouldn ’ t be sure whether or not you were working or not .
and your accomplishment today is vital to america reclaiming the highest proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. so i am proud of you . i am proud of you i know that for many of you reaching this day wasn ’ t easy .
so all those issues are important , and we ’ ll be fighting on every one of those issues . but if we don ’ t have a growing , thriving middle class then we won ’ t have the resources to solve a lot of these problems . we won ’ t have the resolve , the optimism , the sense of unity that we need to solve many of these other issues .
and in the conversations that i had with speaker boehner before the end of the year , we came pretty close -- a few hundred billion dollars separating us when stretched over a 10-year period , that ’ s not a lot .
now , india is not the only emerging power in the world . but relationships between our countries is unique . for we are two strong democracies whose constitutions begin with the same revolutionary words -- the same revolutionary words -- “ we the people. ” we are two great republics dedicated to the liberty and justice and equality of all people . and we are two free market economies where people have the freedom to pursue ideas and innovation that can change the world . and that ’ s why i believe that india and america are indispensable partners in meeting the challenges of our time .
he was a senate icon . he was a party leader . he was an elder statesman . and he was my friend . that ’ s how i ’ ll remember him . today we remember the path he climbed to such extraordinary peaks . born cornelius calvin sale , jr. -- corny , he joked , for short -- his mother lost her life in the great influenza pandemic of 1918. from the aunt and uncle who raised him , amid west virginia ’ s coal camps , he gained not only his byrd name but a reverence for god almighty , a love of learning that was nurtured at mark twain school . and there he met erma , his sweetheart for over 70 years , by whose side he will now rest for eternity .
time and again , nations and people have shown our capacity to change -- to live up to humanity ’ s highest ideals , to choose our better history . last month , i stood where 50 years ago martin luther king jr. told america about his dream , at a time when many people of my race could not even vote for president . earlier this year , i stood in the small cell where nelson mandela endured decades cut off from his own people and the world . who are we to believe that today ’ s challenges can not be overcome , when we have seen what changes the human spirit can bring ? who in this hall can argue that the future belongs to those who seek to repress that spirit , rather than those who seek to liberate it ?
and that means we 'll face more localized threats like what we saw in benghazi , or the bp oil facility in algeria , in which local operatives -- perhaps in loose affiliation with regional networks -- launch periodic attacks against western diplomats , companies , and other soft targets , or resort to kidnapping and other criminal enterprises to fund their operations
chuck todd -- love you , brother . i ’ m delighted to see some of the cast members of glee are here . and jimmy kimmel , it ’ s an honor , man . what ’ s so funny ?
but part of the problem is everybody is so cynical . i mean , we ’ re constantly feeding cynicism , suspicion , conspiracies . you remember a few months ago , my administration put out a photograph of me going skeet shooting at camp david ?
mitigation . transparency . financing . it 's a clear formula -- one that embraces the principle of common but differentiated responses and respective capabilities . and it adds up to a significant accord -- one that takes us farther than we have ever gone before as an international community .
the same can be said of health insurance reform . we simply could not continue to accept a status quo that 's made our entire economy less competitive , as we 've paid more per person for health care than any other nation on earth . nobody is even close . and we could n't accept a broken system where insurance companies could drop people because they got sick , or families went into bankruptcy because of medical bills .
in the face of that young student , who sleeps just three hours before working the night shift , i think about my mom , who raised my sister and me on her own while she worked and earned her degree , who once turned to food stamps , but was still able to send us to the best schools in the country with the help of student loans and scholarships .
i reject these choices . i believe that peace is unstable where citizens are denied the right to speak freely or worship as they please ; choose their own leaders or assemble without fear . pent-up grievances fester , and the suppression of tribal and religious identity can lead to violence . we also know that the opposite is true . only when europe became free did it finally find peace . america has never fought a war against a democracy , and our closest friends are governments that protect the rights of their citizens . no matter how callously defined , neither america 's interests -- nor the world 's -- are served by the denial of human aspirations .
there were some in the house , and there may be some in the senate , who argue that the act is no longer needed , that the protections of section 5 's `` preclearance '' requirement '' -- a requirement that ensures certain states are upholding the right to vote -- are targeting the wrong states . unfortunately , the evidence refutes that notion . of the 1100 objections issued by the department of justice since 1965 , 56 [ percent ] occurred since the last reauthorization in 1982. over half have occurred since 1982. so despite the progress these states have made in upholding the right to vote , it 's clear that problems still exist .
what ’ s more , we ’ ve stationed doctors and scientists across the five gulf states to look out for people ’ s health and then to monitor any ill effects felt by cleanup workers and local residents . and we ’ ve begun setting up a system to track these efforts -- excuse me , to track these effects -- and ensure folks get the care that they need . and we ’ ve told bp that we expect them to pay for that , too .
i want to acknowledge , by the way , that the companies who are represented here are stepping up as well . the cyber threat alliance , which includes companies like palo alto networks and symantec , are going to work with us to share more information under this new executive order . you ’ ve got companies from apple to intel , from bank of america to pg & e , who are going to use the cybersecurity framework to strengthen their own defenses . as part of our buysecure initiative , visa and mastercard and american express and others are going to make their transactions more secure . nationstar is joining companies that are giving their companies [ customers ] another weapon to battle identity theft , and that 's free access to their credit scores .
and i believe we can do this again . as we do , the successes and failures of our own past can serve as an example for emerging economies -- that it ’ s possible to grow without polluting ; that lasting prosperity comes not from what a nation consumes , but from what it produces , and from the investments it makes in its people and its infrastructure .
we will continue to support a moderate opposition inside of syria , in part because we have to give people inside of syria a choice other than isil or assad and i don ’ t see any scenario in which assad somehow is able to bring peace and stability to a region that is majority sunni and has not so far shown any willingness to share power with them or in any kind of significant way deal with the longstanding grievances that they have there .
northern ireland is hosting the world police and fire games later this year -- which dame mary peters is helping to organize . golf fans like me had to wait a long six decades for the irish open to return to the north last year . i am unhappy that i will not get a few rounds in while i 'm here . i did meet rory mcilroy last year -- and rory offered to get my swing “ sorted , '' -- which was a polite way of saying , “ mr . president , you need help . ”
but as far back as the 1980s , america started amassing debt at more alarming levels , and our leaders began to realize that a larger challenge was on the horizon . they knew that eventually , the baby boom generation would retire , which meant a much bigger portion of our citizens would be relying on programs like medicare , social security , and possibly medicaid . like parents with young children who know they have to start saving for the college years , america had to start borrowing less and saving more to prepare for the retirement of an entire generation .
ken salazar , he works so hard on the issues that matter to all of you . and we also have members of congress here as well who are great partners in this effort . and i finally -- i want to give a shout-out to the young people who are here as part of the white house program called “ champions for change. ” really remarkable young people .
but what we can ’ t do -- what i will not do -- is let this economic crisis be used as an excuse to wipe out the basic protections that americans have counted on for decades .
we detailed $ 930 billion in sensible spending cuts that we ’ re willing to make and $ 580 billion in wasteful tax loopholes and deductions that we ’ re willing to eliminate through tax reform .
but alongside these economic arguments , there 's another , more powerful one . and it is simply this : we are not a nation that accepts nearly 46 million uninsured men , women and children . we are not a nation that lets hardworking families go without coverage , or turns its back on those in need . we 're a nation that cares for its citizens . we look out for one another . that 's what makes us the united states of america . we need to get this done .
so , together , let ’ s remember that every dollar , every peso that we invest in research and development returns so much more to our economies in jobs and opportunity , new products , new services . that 's why i 'm calling for us to forge new partnerships in aerospace , and it , and nanotechnology and biotechnology and robotics . let ’ s answer the hope of a young woman -- a student at the national polytechnic institute -- who spoke for many in your generation , so eager to make your mark . she said , “ give us jobs as creators. ” give us jobs as creators .
remember , i have always insisted that i will do what is necessary to prevent iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon , and i will . but i also know that a diplomatic solution is the best way to get this done , and offers a more comprehensive -- and lasting -- solution . it is our best option , by far . and while it is always a possibility that iran may try to cheat on the deal in the future , this framework of inspections and transparency makes it far more likely that we ’ ll know about it if they try to cheat -- and i , or future presidents , will have preserved all of the options that are currently available to deal with it .
we ’ ve seen a historic democratic transition in indonesia . we ’ ve got elections coming later this year in myanmar . communities in laos and brunei are working for development that ’ s sustainable and protecting the environment . and we ’ re seeing new commitments to the education of young women and girls , as is true in cambodia . the people of thailand played a critical role in the global response to the earthquake in nepal . and we are mindful of the king of thailand ’ s health issues lately and we wish him the best , and our hopes and prayers are with him . so southeast asia is stepping up . it ’ s on the move .
that is the tradition of american leadership on behalf of the global good . and that will be my fifth goal -- rebuilding our alliances to meet the common challenges of the 21st century .
now , i think it 's very important to understand : we wo n't be able to bring down this deficit overnight , given that the recovery is still taking hold and families across the country still need help . we will continue , for example , to do what it takes to create jobs . that 's reflected in my budget ; it 's essential . the budget includes new tax cuts for people who invest in small businesses , tax credits for small businesses that hire new workers , investments that will create jobs repairing roads and bridges , and tax breaks for retrofitting homes to save energy .
it is that fundamental belief -- it is that fundamental belief : i am my brother ’ s keeper . i am my sister ’ s keeper that makes this country work . it ’ s what allows us to pursue our individual dreams and yet still come together as one american family .
and you don ’ t just provide clean bandages or an intravenous line . a nurse will hold your hand sometime , or offer a voice of calm , or that knowing glance that says things are going to be okay .
blacks are less likely in their schools to have adequate funding . we have less-qualified teachers in those schools . we have fewer textbooks in those schools . we got in some schools rats outnumbering computers .
thank you , mr. president . i yield the floor . mr. president , i rise , first , to offer strong words of support for the statement that was just offered by the distinguished senator from massachusetts . i , as well , rise today to speak in support of the iraq resolution that the senate will consider tomorrow .
the last administration called this recycled idea “ the ownership society. ” but what it essentially means is that everyone is on their own . no matter how hard you work , if your paycheck isn ’ t enough to pay for college or health care or childcare , well , you ’ re on your own . if misfortune causes you to lose your job or your home , you ’ re on your own . and if you ’ re a wall street bank or an insurance company or an oil company , you pretty much get to play by your own rules , regardless of the consequences for everybody else .
we 're going to talk about the economy today . and i was telling president degioia this may be a slightly longer speech than i usually give , but it 's a slightly bigger topic , and that is how we are going to deal with so many of our economic challenges .
we have reached a pivotal moment . the united states stands ready to begin a new chapter of international cooperation -- one that recognizes the rights and responsibilities of all nations . and so , with confidence in our cause , and with a commitment to our values , we call on all nations to join us in building the future that our people so richly deserve .
make no mistake , though : iraq , turkey , and the united states face a common threat from terrorism . that includes the al qaeda terrorists who have sought to drive iraqis apart and destroy their country . that includes the pkk . there is no excuse for terror against any nation . as president , and as a nato ally , i pledge that you will have our support against the terrorist activities of the pkk or anyone else . these efforts will be strengthened by the continued work to build ties of cooperation between turkey , the iraqi government , and iraq 's kurdish leaders , and by your continued efforts to promote education and opportunity and democracy for the kurdish population here inside turkey .
but at the same time , as i ’ ve said in the united states , i will continue to do everything in my power to pass common-sense reforms that keep guns out of the hands of criminals and dangerous people .
i have said that when it comes to preventing iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon , i will take no options off the table , and i mean what i say . that includes all elements of american power : a political effort aimed at isolating iran ; a diplomatic effort to sustain our coalition and ensure that the iranian program is monitored ; an economic effort that imposes crippling sanctions ; and , yes , a military effort to be prepared for any contingency .
let me close by saying that there is no decision i face as your commander in chief that i consider as carefully as the decision to ask our men and women to use military force . particularly at a time when our military is fighting in afghanistan and winding down our activities in iraq , that decision is only made more difficult . but the united states of america will not stand idly by in the face of actions that undermine global peace and security . so i have taken this decision with the confidence that action is necessary , and that we will not be acting alone . our goal is focused , our cause is just , and our coalition is strong .
and in just a few days , a century-long struggle will culminate in a historic vote . we ’ ve had historic votes before . we had a historic vote to put social security in place to make sure that our elderly did not live out their golden years in poverty . we had a historic vote in civil rights to make sure that everybody was equal under the law . as messy as this process is , as frustrating as this process is , as ugly as this process can be , when we have faced such decisions in our past , this nation , time and time again , has chosen to extend its promise to more of its people .
here in newtown , i come to offer the love and prayers of a nation . i am very mindful that mere words can not match the depths of your sorrow , nor can they heal your wounded hearts . i can only hope it helps for you to know that you ’ re not alone in your grief ; that our world too has been torn apart ; that all across this land of ours , we have wept with you , we ’ ve pulled our children tight . and you must know that whatever measure of comfort we can provide , we will provide ; whatever portion of sadness that we can share with you to ease this heavy load , we will gladly bear it .
but i think it 's important to recognize that you ca n't have 100 percent security and also then have 100 percent privacy and zero inconvenience . we 're going to have to make some choices as a society .
after all , we are just getting started . think about it . tim berners-lee , from his lab in switzerland , invented the world wide web in 1989 , which was only 26 years ago . the great epochs in human history -- the bronze age , iron age , agricultural revolution , industrial revolution -- they spanned centuries . we ’ re only 26 years into this internet age . we ’ ve only scratched the surface . and as i guess they say at google , “ the future is awesome. ” we haven ’ t even begun to imagine the discoveries and innovations that are going to be unleashed in the decades to come . but we know how we ’ ll get there .
the question is what kind of future israel will look forward to . israel is not going anywhere -- but especially for the young people in this audience , the question is what does its future hold ? and that brings me to the subject of peace .
i did not know ted as long as some of the speakers here today . but he was my friend . i owe him a lot . and as far as i could tell , it was never ideology that compelled him , except insofar as his ideology said , you should help people ; that you should have a life of purpose ; that you should be empathetic and be able to put yourself in somebody else ’ s shoes , and see through their eyes . his tirelessness , his restlessness , they were rooted in his experience .
through patent reform , we can cut the red tape that stops too many inventors and entrepreneurs from quickly turning new ideas into thriving businesses -- which holds our whole economy back . and i want congress to pass a set of trade deals -- deals we ’ ve already negotiated -- that would help displaced workers looking for new jobs and would allow our businesses to sell more products in countries in asia and south america , products that are stamped with the words “ made in america . ”
and it is precisely because i care so deeply about the state of israel -- it ’ s precisely because , yes , i have high expectations for israel the same way i have high expectations for the united states of america -- that i feel a responsibility to speak out honestly about what i think will lead to long-term security and to the preservation of a true democracy in the jewish homeland . and i believe that ’ s two states for two peoples , israel and palestine , living side by side in peace and security . just as israelis built a state in their homeland , palestinians have a right to be a free people on their land , as well .
and , secondly , more broadly -- big picture -- as you end this trip , i don ’ t think i have to remind you there have been a lot of unflattering portraits of your foreign policy right now . and rather than get into all the details or red lines , et cetera , i ’ d like to give you a chance to lay out what your vision is more than five years into office , what you think the obama doctrine is in terms of what your guiding principle is on all of these crises and how you answer those critics who say they think the doctrine is weakness .
we may disagree about the best way to reform our health care system , but surely we can agree that no one ought to go broke when they get sick in the richest nation on earth . we can take different approaches to ending inequality , but surely we can agree on the need to lift our children out of ignorance ; to lift our neighbors from poverty . we may disagree about gay marriage , but surely we can agree that it is unconscionable to target gays and lesbians for who they are -- whether it 's here in the united states or , as hillary mentioned , more extremely in odious laws that are being proposed most recently in uganda .
the letter asks us for help , and says , `` we are just students trying to become lawyers , doctors , congressmen like yourself and one day president , so we can make a change to not just the state of south carolina but also the world .
and people will have six months to sign up . so over the next six months , people are going to have the opportunity -- in many cases , for the first time in their lives -- to get affordable coverage that they desperately need .
if you want to change the world , the change has to happen with you first and that is something that the greatest and most honorable of generations has taught us , but the final thing that i think the moses generation teaches us is to remind ourselves that we do what we do because god is with us . you know , when moses was first called to lead people out of the promised land , he said i do n't think i can do it , lord . i do n't speak like reverend lowery . i do n't feel brave and courageous and the lord said i will be with you . throw down that rod . pick it back up . i 'll show you what to do . the same thing happened with the joshua generation .
indeed , the legal challenges that have sparked so much debate in recent weeks here in washington would be taking place whether or not i decided to close guantanamo . for example , the court order to release 17 uighurs -- 17 uighur detainees took place last fall , when george bush was president . the supreme court that invalidated the system of prosecution at guantanamo in 2006 was overwhelmingly appointed by republican presidents -- not wild-eyed liberals . in other words , the problem of what to do with guantanamo detainees was not caused by my decision to close the facility ; the problem exists because of the decision to open guantanamo in the first place .
so , thank you , and jai hind . and long live the partnership between india and the united states . mr. president , mr. secretary-general , my fellow delegates , ladies and gentlemen . it is a great honor to address this assembly for the second time , nearly two years after my election as president of the united states .
i , on the other hand , have run my last campaign . on thursday , as ed mentioned , i went to the opening of the bush presidential library in dallas . it was a wonderful event , and that inspired me to get started on my own legacy , which will actually begin by building another edifice right next to the bush library -- can we show that , please ?
so let me just say , when the united states sees space closing for civil society , we will work to open it . when efforts are made to wall you off from the world , we ’ ll try to connect you with each other . when you are silenced , we ’ ll try to speak out alongside you . and when you ’ re suppressed , we want to help strengthen you . as you work for change , the united states will stand up alongside you every step of the way . we are respectful of the difference among our countries . the days in which our agenda in this hemisphere so often presumed that the united states could meddle with impunity , those days are past .
but more importantly , they stand as a challenge to your generation , because they tell you that your voice matters -- your ideals , your willingness to act on those ideals , your choices can make a difference .
that 's why we ’ ve launched a partnership to retrain workers with new skills . that ’ s why we ’ ve invested in clean energy manufacturing and new jobs building wind turbines and solar panels and advanced batteries . we have not run out of stuff to make . we ’ ve just got to reinvigorate our manufacturing sector so that it leads the world the way it always has -- from paper and steel and cars to new products that we haven ’ t even dreamed up yet . that ’ s how we ’ re going to strengthen existing industries ; that 's how we ’ re going to spark new ones . that ’ s how we ’ re going to create jobs , grow the middle class , and secure our economic leadership .
it 's not what would be expected from them , and yet they recognize , in those immigrant families , the face of god . we see that in the evangelical leaders who are rallying their congregations to protect our planet .
but then i asked myself , `` are we serving shamus as well as he is serving us ? '' i thought of the 900 men and women -- sons and daughters , husbands and wives , friends and neighbors , who won ’ t be returning to their own hometowns . i thought of the families i ’ ve met who were struggling to get by without a loved one ’ s full income , or whose loved ones had returned with a limb missing or nerves shattered , but still lacked long-term health benefits because they were reservists .
when his commanders ordered an evacuation , he chose to stay -- gathering the injured , tending to their wounds . when the enemy broke through and the combat was hand-to-hand , he carried on -- comforting the injured and the dying , offering some measure of peace as they left this earth .
now , the house has passed a jobs bill that includes some of these steps . as the first order of business this year , i urge the senate to do the same -- and i know they will . they will . people are out of work . they 're hurting . and they need our help . and i want a jobs bill on my desk without delay .
audience member : it needs to be -- president obama : now , ma'am , let me finish . let me finish , ma'am . part of free speech is you being able to speak , but also , you listening and me being able to speak .
cynics may argue that such an outcome can never come to pass . but there is no other way for this madness to end -- whether one year from now or ten . and it points to the fact that it ’ s time for a broader negotiation in the region in which major powers address their differences directly , honestly , and peacefully across the table from one another , rather than through gun-wielding proxies . i can promise you america will remain engaged in the region , and we are prepared to engage in that effort .
a common desire to fix what ’ s broken . a willingness to compromise in pursuit of a larger goal . a personal relationship that lets you fight like heck on one issue , and shake hands on the next -- not through just cajoling or horse-trading or serenades , but through ted ’ s brand of friendship and kindness , and humor and grace .
before i take just a couple of questions let me remark on one other issue . this morning , i spoke with prime minister netanyahu of israel about the situation in gaza . we discussed israel ’ s military operation in gaza , including its efforts to stop the threat of terrorist infiltration through tunnels into israel . i reaffirmed my strong support for israel ’ s right to defend itself . no nation should accept rockets being fired into its borders , or terrorists tunneling into its territory . in fact , while i was having the conversation with prime minister netanyahu , sirens went off in tel aviv .
we are the country that invented the internet . and we ’ re also the pioneers of this information age -- the creators , the designers , the innovators . our children are leaving us in the dust , if you haven ’ t noticed . they ’ re connecting and they ’ re collaborating like never before , and imagining a future we can only dream of . when we americans put our minds together and our shoulder to the wheel , there ’ s nothing we can ’ t do . so i ’ m confident , if we keep at this , we can deliver the prosperity and security and privacy that all americans deserve .
i am running for president of the united states to lead this country in a new direction -- to seize this moment 's promise . instead of being distracted from the most pressing threats that we face , i want to overcome them . instead of pushing the entire burden of our foreign policy on to the brave men and women of our military , i want to use all elements of american power to keep us safe , and prosperous , and free . instead of alienating ourselves from the world , i want america -- once again -- to lead .
now , even if we accept all of the economic and moral reasons for providing affordable coverage to all americans , there is no denying that expanding coverage will come at a cost , at least in the short run . but it is a cost that will not -- i repeat -- will not add to our deficits . i 've set down a rule for my staff , for my team -- and i 've said this to congress -- health care reform must be , and will be , deficit-neutral in the next decade .
yes , government must lead on energy independence , but each of us must do our part to make our homes and businesses more efficient . yes , we must provide more ladders to success for young men who fall into lives of crime and despair .
tonight , minnesota , after 54 hard-fought contests , our primary season has finally come to an end . sixteen -- sixteen months have passed since we first stood together on the steps of the old state capitol in springfield , illinois . thousands of miles have been traveled ; millions of voices have been heard .
and one big area of concern has been the cost and security of our energy . obviously , the situation in the middle east implicates our energy security . the situation in japan leads us to ask questions about our energy sources .
it ’ s a profession that ’ s not without risks and danger , and the workers and their families know that . but their government and their employers know that they owe it to these families to do everything possible to ensure their safety when they go to work each day .
and that is our vision of the americas . this is the progress we can achieve together . this is the spirit of partnership and equality to which the united states is committed . i am confident that , working together , there is nothing we can not achieve . thank you very much . muchas gracias .
let me make one final point about the use of force . even as we make difficult decisions about going to war , we must also think clearly about how we fight it . the nobel committee recognized this truth in awarding its first prize for peace to henry dunant -- the founder of the red cross , and a driving force behind the geneva conventions .
but as everybody knows , there ’ s a lot more that we should be doing to make sure that all americans benefit from the progress that we ’ ve made . and i ’ m going to be pushing congress hard on this when they return next week .
we see sectarian war in syria , the murder of muslims and christians in nigeria , religious war in the central african republic , a rising tide of anti-semitism and hate crimes in europe , so often perpetrated in the name of religion .
there are two main reasons for this . the first is a system of incentives where the more tests and services are provided , the more money we pay . and a lot of people in this room know what i 'm talking about . it 's a model that rewards the quantity of care rather than the quality of care ; that pushes you , the doctor , to see more and more patients even if you ca n't spend much time with each , and gives you every incentive to order that extra mri or ekg , even if it 's not necessary . it 's a model that has taken the pursuit of medicine from a profession -- a calling -- to a business .
for everywhere in this country , there are first steps to be taken , there ’ s new ground to cover , there are more bridges to be crossed . and it is you , the young and fearless at heart , the most diverse and educated generation in our history , who the nation is waiting to follow .
there are those who will continue to tell us that we ca n't do this , that we ca n't have what we 're looking for , that we ca n't have what we want , that we 're peddling false hopes . but here 's what i know . i know that when people say we ca n't overcome all the big money and influence in washington , i think of that elderly woman who sent me a contribution the other day , an envelope that had a money order for $ 3.01 -- along with a verse of scripture tucked inside the envelope . so do n't tell us change is n't possible . that woman knows change is possible .
and as reverend brown alluded to , the question that weighs on us at a time like this is : why ? why our town ? why our home ? why my son , or husband , or wife , or sister , or friend ? why ?
it is a privilege to be with you on this happy occasion , and , you know , it ’ s nice to spend a little time outside of washington . now , don ’ t get me wrong -- washington is a beautiful city . it ’ s very nice living above the store ; you can ’ t beat the commute . it ’ s just sometimes all you hear in washington is the clamor of politics . and all that noise can drown out the voices of the people who sent you there . so when i took office , i decided that each night i would read 10 letters out of the tens of thousands that are sent to us by ordinary americans every day -- this is my modest effort to remind myself of why i ran in the first place .
that 's what abraham lincoln understood . he had his doubts . he had his defeats . he had his skeptics . he had his setbacks . but through his will and his words , he moved a nation and helped free a people . it 's because of the millions who rallied to his cause that we 're no longer divided , north and south , slave and free . it 's because men and women of every race , from every walk of life , continued to march for freedom long after lincoln was laid to rest , that today we have the chance to face the challenges of this millennium together , as one people -- as americans .
he tells us that there is power in words . he tells us that there 's power in conviction . that beneath all the differences of race and region , faith and station , we are one people .
now , you , class of 2009 , are about to enter the next phase of your life at a time of great uncertainty . you 'll be called to help restore a free market that 's also fair to all who are willing to work .
it is great to be back at carnegie mellon , and in the beautiful city of pittsburgh . i love visiting a good sports town . last year , i stole dan rooney to serve as my ambassador to ireland . to make it up , i invited both the steelers and the penguins to the white house to celebrate their championships . seeing how the blackhawks are headed to philly tonight with a 2-0 lead in the stanley cup finals , i 'm just glad that we 're on this side of the state .
because let ’ s be clear : the status quo in the west bank and gaza is not sustainable . we can not afford to turn away from this effort -- not when rockets are fired at innocent israelis , or the lives of so many palestinian children are taken from us in gaza . so long as i am president , we will stand up for the principle that israelis , palestinians , the region and the world will be more just and more safe with two states living side by side , in peace and security .
now , i know that not all countries in this body share this particular understanding of the protection of free speech . we recognize that . but in 2012 , at a time when anyone with a cell phone can spread offensive views around the world with the click of a button , the notion that we can control the flow of information is obsolete . the question , then , is how do we respond ?
having thrown off colonialism , we created constitutions that began with the same three words -- `` we the people . '' as societies that celebrate knowledge and innovation , we transformed ourselves into high-tech hubs of the global economy . together , we unlock new discoveries -- from the particles of creation to outer space -- two nations to have gone to both the moon and to mars . and here in india , this dynamism has resulted in a stunning achievement . you 've lifted countless millions from poverty and built one of the world 's largest middle classes .
for the last year , chairmen barney frank and chris dodd have worked day and night . barney and chris have worked day and night to bring about this reform . and i am profoundly grateful to them . i would be remiss if i did n't also express my appreciation to senator harry reid and speaker nancy pelosi for their leadership . it wouldn ’ t have happened without them .
today , i want to outline where the united states of america stands on these issues . with respect to syria , we believe that as a starting point , the international community must enforce the ban on chemical weapons .
but we also know that what too many fathers being absent means -- too many fathers missing from too many homes , missing from too many lives . we know that when fathers abandon their responsibilities , there ’ s harm done to those kids . we know that children who grow up without a father are more likely to live in poverty . they 're more likely to drop out of school . they 're more likely to wind up in prison . they ’ re more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol . they ’ re more likely to run away from home . they ’ re more likely to become teenage parents themselves .
now , of course , if you ’ re one of the 85 percent of americans who already have health insurance , you don ’ t need to do a thing . you ’ re already benefiting from new benefits and protections that have been in place for some time under this law . but for the 15 percent of americans who do n't have health insurance , this opportunity is life-changing .
i ’ ve got time for one more , two more . i definitely don ’ t have time for 30 more . two more . i ’ ve got time for two more . it ’ s a gentleman ’ s turn .
now , as we stabilized the financial system , we also took steps to get our economy growing again , save as many jobs as possible , and help americans who had become unemployed . that 's why we extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 18 million americans , made health insurance 65 % cheaper for families who get their coverage through cobra , and passed 25 different tax cuts .
there , in the mines , for their families , they became a family themselves -- sharing birthdays , relaxing together , watching mountaineers football or basketball together , spending days off together , hunting or fishing . they may not have always loved what they did , said a sister , but they loved doing it together . they loved doing it as a family . they loved doing it as a community .
as soon as we determined the cause of their deaths , i directed that the existence of this operation be declassified and disclosed publicly . i did so because the weinstein and lo porto families deserve to know the truth . and i did so because even as certain aspects of our national security efforts have to remain secret in order to succeed , the united states is a democracy committed to openness in good times and in bad .
as ariel sharon said -- i 'm quoting him -- “ it is impossible to have a jewish democratic state , at the same time to control all of eretz israel . if we insist on fulfilling the dream in its entirety , we are liable to lose it all. ” or , from a different perspective , i think of what the novelist david grossman said shortly after losing his son , as he described the necessity of peace -- “ a peace of no choice ” he said , “ must be approached with the same determination and creativity as one approaches a war of no choice . ”
all these things give me hope . but what gives me the most hope is not the actions of us , not the actions of leaders -- it is the people that i ’ ve seen .
but as i stand here tonight , i have never been more hopeful about america ; not because i think i have all the answers ; not because i 'm naive about the magnitude of our challenges -- i 'm hopeful because of you .
now , there have been countless acts of kindness and selflessness in recent days . we ’ ve already heard the record of some of that . but perhaps none are as inspiring as what took place when the storm was bearing down on joplin , threatening an entire community with utter destruction . and in the face of winds that showed no mercy , no regard for human life , that did not discriminate by race or faith or background , it was ordinary people , swiftly tested , who said , “ i ’ m willing to die right now so that someone else might live . ”
two days ago , i visited michigan , where workers have brought the auto industry roaring back . and we talked about what else we can do around advanced manufacturing . yesterday , i was in arizona , where i announced new actions to make the dream of homeownership a reality for more middle-class families . later today , joe and i are going to head to a company in clinton to take action that will develop high-tech industry even further here in tennessee . and right here , right now , at pellissippi state , i ’ m going to announce one of my most important state of the union proposals , and that ’ s helping every american afford a higher education .
now , several weeks ago , as part of an ongoing court case , i released memos issued by the previous administration 's office of legal counsel . i did not do this because i disagreed with the enhanced interrogation techniques that those memos authorized , and i did n't release the documents because i rejected their legal rationales -- although i do on both counts . i released the memos because the existence of that approach to interrogation was already widely known , the bush administration had acknowledged its existence , and i had already banned those methods . the argument that somehow by releasing those memos we are providing terrorists with information about how they will be interrogated makes no sense . we will not be interrogating terrorists using that approach . that approach is now prohibited .
at the same time , our outstanding va secretary , ric shinseki , is working every day to build a 21st century va. many of our vietnam vets are already submitting their agent orange claims electronically . hundreds of you , from all wars , are requesting your benefits online . thanks to the new “ blue button ” on the va website , you can now share your personal health information with your doctors outside of the va. and we ’ re making progress in sharing medical records between dod and va. we ’ re not there yet . i 've been pounding on this thing since i came into office . we are going to stay on it , we 're going to keep at it until our troops and our veterans have a lifetime electronic medical record that you can keep for your life .
so , once again , i urge house republicans to reopen the government , restart the services americans depend on , and allow the public servants who have been sent home to return to work . this is only going to happen when republicans realize they don ’ t get to hold the entire economy hostage over ideological demands .
america , after all , has always been a grand experiment in compromise . as a democracy made up of every race and religion , where every belief and point of view is welcomed , we have put to the test time and again the proposition at the heart of our founding : that out of many , we are one . we ’ ve engaged in fierce and passionate debates about the issues of the day , but from slavery to war , from civil liberties to questions of economic justice , we have tried to live by the words that jefferson once wrote : “ every man can not have his way in all things -- without this mutual disposition , we are disjointed individuals , but not a society . ”
for we have learned from recent experience that when a financial system weakens in one country , prosperity is hurt everywhere . when a new flu infects one human being , all are at risk . when one nation pursues a nuclear weapon , the risk of nuclear attack rises for all nations . when violent extremists operate in one stretch of mountains , people are endangered across an ocean . when innocents in bosnia and darfur are slaughtered , that is a stain on our collective conscience . that is what it means to share this world in the 21st century . that is the responsibility we have to one another as human beings .
this place can make the future better , not just for these individuals but for america now , since this recession began 20 months ago , 6.5 million americans have lost their jobs , and i do n't have to tell you michigan in particular has been hard-hit . now , i -- the statistics are daunting . the whole country now , the unemployment rate is approaching 10 percent . here in michigan , it 's about five points higher . and new jobs of course are going to be coming out and we 're going to see continuing job loss even as the economy is beginning to stabilize .
but if changing our hearts and our minds is the first critical step , we can not stop there . it ’ s not enough to bemoan the plight of the poor in this country and remain unwilling to push our elected officials to provide the resources to fix our schools . it 's not enough to decry the disparities of health care and yet allow the insurance companies and the drug companies to block real reform in our health care system . it ’ s not enough -- it ’ s not enough for us to abhor the costs of a misguided war , and yet we continue to allow ourselves to be driven by a politics of fear that sees the threat of an attack as a way to scare up votes instead of a call to come together in a common effort .
together , we have met great challenges . but as we enter this new chapter in our shared history , profound challenges stretch before us . in a world where the prosperity of all nations is now inextricably linked , a new era of cooperation is required to ensure the growth and stability of the global economy . as new threats spread across borders and oceans , we must dismantle terrorist networks and stop the spread of nuclear weapons , confront climate change and combat famine and disease . and as a revolution races through the streets of the middle east and north africa , the entire world has a stake in the aspirations of a generation that longs to determine its own destiny .
we also welcome the friends and family who made staff sergeant giunta into the man that he is , including his lovely wife , jenny ; and his parents , steven and rosemary ; as well as his siblings , who are here . it was his mother , after all , who apparently taught him as a young boy in small-town iowa how to remove the screen from his bedroom window in case of fire . what she didn ’ t know was that by teaching sal how to jump from his bedroom and sneaking off in the dead of night , she was unleashing a future paratrooper -- who would one day fight in the rugged mountains of afghanistan 7,000 miles away .
so we 've got to pay our bills . and republicans in congress have two choices here : they can act responsibly , and pay america ’ s bills ; or they can act irresponsibly , and put america through another economic crisis . but they will not collect a ransom in exchange for not crashing the american economy . the financial well-being of the american people is not leverage to be used . the full faith and credit of the united states of america is not a bargaining chip .
when i think about israel ’ s security , i think about five israelis who boarded a bus in bulgaria , who were blown up because of where they came from ; robbed of the ability to live , and love , and raise families . that ’ s why every country that values justice should call hizbollah what it truly is -- a terrorist organization . because the world can not tolerate an organization that murders innocent civilians , stockpiles rockets to shoot at cities , and supports the massacre of men and women and children in syria right now .
last february , i was scheduled to see her and other civil rights leaders to discuss the pressing problems of unemployment -- reverend sharpton , ben jealous of the naacp , marc morial of the national urban league . then we discovered that washington was about to be blanketed by the worst blizzard in record -- two feet of snow .
i pledged to finish the job in afghanistan . after years of drift , we had to break the momentum of the taliban , and build up the capacity and the capability of afghans . and so , working with our commanders , we came up with a new strategy , and we ordered additional forces to get the job done . this is still a tough fight . but thanks to the incredible services and sacrifices of our troops , we pushed the taliban back ; we ’ re training afghan forces ; we ’ ve begun the transition to afghan lead .
there are several people that i just want to acknowledge very briefly . we have the president of the inter-american development bank , luis alberto moreno , who is here . we also have alicia bárcena , who is the executive secretary of the economic commission for latin america and the caribbean .
let me just give you one example of what i ’ m talking about . there ’ s a report today from -- that from 2003 to 2006 , millionaire farmers received 49 million dollars in crop subsidies even though they were earning more than the 2.5 million cutoff for such subsidies . now , if this is true -- and this was just a report this morning -- but if it 's true , it is a prime example of the kind of waste that i intend to end as president .
third , we ’ re going to help bring jobs and growth to hard-hit neighborhoods by giving tax breaks to business owners who invest and hire in those neighborhoods . fourth , and specific to the issue of violence -- because it ’ s very hard to develop economically if people do n't feel safe . if they do n't feel like they can walk down the street and shop at a store without getting hit over head or worse , then commerce dries up , businesses do n't want to locate , families move out , you get into the wrong cycle . so we ’ re going to target neighborhoods struggling to deal with violent crime and help them reduce that violence in ways that have been proven to work . and i know this is a priority of your mayor ’ s ; it ’ s going to be a priority of mine .
despite all of this , i am hopeful about the future . i have full confidence in the wisdom and ingenuity of my economic team and in the hard work , courage , and sacrifice of the american people . and most of all , i believe deeply in the resilience and the spirit of this nation . i know we can work our way out of this crisis because we ’ ve done it before . and i know we will succeed once again if we put aside partisanship and politics and work together .
this year , we ’ ll start offering tax credits to about 4 million small businessmen and women to help them cover the cost of insurance for their employees . that happens this year .
so you see , the election four years ago was n't about me . it was about you . my fellow citizens : you were the change . you 're the reason there 's a little girl with a heart disorder in phoenix who 'll get the surgery she needs because an insurance company ca n't limit her coverage . you did that .
let me say this as plainly as i can : by august 31 , 2010 , our combat mission in iraq will end . as we carry out this drawdown , my highest priority will be the safety and security of our troops and civilians in iraq . we will proceed carefully , and i will consult closely with my military commanders on the ground and with the iraqi government . there will surely be difficult periods and tactical adjustments . but our enemies should be left with no doubt : this plan gives our military the forces and the flexibility they need to support our iraqi partners , and to succeed .
and i was encouraged to see a republican senator join with democrats this week in moving forward on this issue . that 's a good sign . that 's a good sign . for without action , we ’ ll continue to see what amounts to highly-leveraged , loosely-monitored gambling in our financial system , putting taxpayers and the economy in jeopardy . and the only people who ought to fear the kind of oversight and transparency that we 're proposing are those whose conduct will fail this scrutiny .
q [ inaudible ] -- line in the sand negotiating , how is that [ inaudible ] to the economy ? the president : no , no , look , what i ’ ve said is that i ’ m happy to have a conversation about deficit reduction --
markets depend on that confidence . part of what led to the turmoil of the past two years was that in the absence of clear rules and sound practices , people didn ’ t trust that our system was one in which it was safe to invest or lend .
we also have to acknowledge that an america run solely on fossil fuels should not be the vision we have for our children and our grandchildren we consume more than 20 percent of the world ’ s oil , but have less than 2 percent of the world ’ s oil reserves . so without a major change in our energy policy , our dependence on oil means that we will continue to send billions of dollars of our hard-earned wealth to other countries every month -- including countries in dangerous and unstable regions . in other words , our continued dependence on fossil fuels will jeopardize our national security . it will smother our planet . and it will continue to put our economy and our environment at risk .
that ’ s why a bomb can ’ t beat us . that ’ s why we don ’ t hunker down . that ’ s why we don ’ t cower in fear . we carry on . we race . we strive . we build , and we work , and we love -- and we raise our kids to do the same . and we come together to celebrate life , and to walk our cities , and to cheer for our teams . when the sox and celtics and patriots or bruins are champions again -- to the chagrin of new york and chicago fans -- the crowds will gather and watch a parade go down boylston street .
as we speak , america is deploying our doctors and scientists -- supported by our military -- to help contain the outbreak of ebola and pursue new treatments . but we need a broader effort to stop a disease that could kill hundreds of thousands , inflict horrific suffering , destabilize economies , and move rapidly across borders . it ’ s easy to see this as a distant problem -- until it is not . and that is why we will continue to mobilize other countries to join us in making concrete commitments , significant commitments to fight this outbreak , and enhance our system of global health security for the long term .
moreover , we can take the money we save with this transition to tax reform to create jobs rebuilding our roads , upgrading our ports , unclogging our commutes -- because in today 's global economy , first-class jobs gravitate to first-class infrastructure . we 'll need congress to protect more than three million jobs by finishing transportation and waterways bills this summer . but i will act on my own to slash bureaucracy and streamline the permitting process for key projects , so we can get more construction workers on the job as fast as possible .
let 's be the generation that finally frees america from the tyranny of oil . we can harness homegrown , alternative fuels like ethanol and spur the production of more fuel-efficient cars . we can set up a system for capping greenhouse gases . we can turn this crisis of global warming into a moment of opportunity for innovation , and job creation , and an incentive for businesses that will serve as a model for the world . let 's be the generation that makes future generations proud of what we did here .
we also know how difficult that search for security can be , especially for a small nation like israel living in a very tough neighborhood . i ’ ve seen it firsthand . when i touched my hand against the western wall and placed my prayer between its ancient stones , i thought of all the centuries that the children of israel had longed to return to their ancient homeland . when i went to sderot and saw the daily struggle to survive in the eyes of an eight-year-old boy who lost his leg to a hamas rocket , and when i walked among the hall of names at yad vashem , i was reminded of the existential fear of israelis when a modern dictator seeks nuclear weapons and threatens to wipe israel off the face of the map -- face of the earth .
we ’ ll give new tax credits to businesses that hire and invest . and we ’ ll work to strengthen families by removing the financial deterrents to marriage for low-income couples , and do more to encourage fatherhood -- because what makes you a man isn ’ t the ability to conceive a child ; it ’ s having the courage to raise one . and we want to encourage that . we want to help that .
these savings are not only counted as part of our plan , but as part of the budget plan that nearly every republican on the house voted for . finally , this plan includes structural reforms to reduce the cost of health care in programs like medicare and medicaid . keep in mind we 've already included a number of reforms in the health care law , which will go a long way towards controlling these costs . but we 're going to have to do a little more . this plan reduces wasteful subsidies and erroneous payments while changing some incentives that often lead to excessive health care costs . it makes prescriptions more affordable through faster approval of generic drugs . we ’ ll work with governors to make medicaid more efficient and more accountable . and we ’ ll change the way we pay for health care . instead of just paying for procedures , providers will be paid more when they improve results -- and such steps will save money and improve care .
audience member : whoop ! president obama : who ’ s cheering for that ? so it was a magical visit . but the only problem was it was far too short . a volcano in iceland forced us to leave before we could even spend the night . so we ’ ve been eager for a chance to return to the emerald isle ever since -- and this time , we brought our daughters , too .
tonight , i ask more of america 's business leaders to follow john 's lead and do what you can to raise your employees ' wages . to every mayor , governor , and state legislator in america , i say , you do n't have to wait for congress to act ; americans will support you if you take this on . and as a chief executive , i intend to lead by example . profitable corporations like costco see higher wages as the smart way to boost productivity and reduce turnover . we should too . in the coming weeks , i will issue an executive order requiring federal contractors to pay their federally-funded employees a fair wage of at least $ 10.10 an hour -- because if you cook our troops ' meals or wash their dishes , you should n't have to live in poverty .
so now is , i think , a somber and appropriate time for all of us to step back and take a hard look at what has happened . violence and conflict inevitably lead to unforeseen consequences . russia , these separatists , and ukraine all have the capacity to put an end to the fighting . meanwhile , the united states is going to continue to lead efforts within the world community to de-escalate the situation ; to stand up for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine ; and to support the people of ukraine as they courageously work to strengthen their democracy and make their own decisions about how they should move forward .
for decades then , there has been a stalemate : two peoples with legitimate aspirations , each with a painful history that makes compromise elusive . it 's easy to point fingers -- for palestinians to point to the displacement brought about by israel 's founding , and for israelis to point to the constant hostility and attacks throughout its history from within its borders as well as beyond . but if we see this conflict only from one side or the other , then we will be blind to the truth : the only resolution is for the aspirations of both sides to be met through two states , where israelis and palestinians each live in peace and security .
do n't be afraid to ask questions . do n't be afraid to ask for help when you need it . i do that every day . asking for help is n't a sign of weakness , it 's a sign of strength because it shows you have the courage to admit when you do n't know something , and that then allows you to learn something new . so find an adult that you trust -- a parent , a grandparent or teacher , a coach or a counselor -- and ask them to help you stay on track to meet your goals .
i know there are many , muslim and non-muslim , who question whether we can forge this new beginning . some are eager to stoke the flames of division , and to stand in the way of progress . some suggest that it is n't worth the effort -- that we are fated to disagree , and civilizations are doomed to clash . many more are simply skeptical that real change can occur . there 's so much fear , so much mistrust that has built up over the years . but if we choose to be bound by the past , we will never move forward .
now , i want to emphasize -- that ’ s not easy . the palestinians are not the easiest of partners . the neighborhood is dangerous . and we can not expect israel to take existential risks with their security so that any deal that takes place has to take into account the genuine dangers of terrorism and hostility .
throughout america 's history , there have been some years that simply rolled into the next without much notice or fanfare . and then there are the years that come along once in a generation , the kind that mark a clean break from a troubled past and set a new course for our nation . this is one of those years .
and as one of the great economic minds of our time , larry has earned a global reputation for being able to cut to the heart of the most complex and novel policy challenges . with respect to both our current financial crisis and other pressing economic issues of our time , his thinking , writing , and speaking have set the terms of the debate . i ’ m glad he will be by my side , playing the critical role of coordinating my administration ’ s economic policy in the white house , and i will rely heavily on his advice as we navigate the uncharted waters of this economic crisis .
the loss of these wonderful people should make every one of us strive to be better . to be better in our private lives , to be better friends and neighbors and coworkers and parents . and if , as has been discussed in recent days , their death helps usher in more civility in our public discourse , let us remember it is not because a simple lack of civility caused this tragedy -- it did not -- but rather because only a more civil and honest public discourse can help us face up to the challenges of our nation in a way that would make them proud .
this moment does not require short-term thinking . it does not require having the same old stale debates . our focus has to be on the basic economic issues that matter most to you , the people we represent . that ’ s what we have to spend our time on and our energy on and our focus on .
like bill iffrig , 78 years old -- the runner in the orange tank top who we all saw get knocked down by the blast -- we may be momentarily knocked off our feet , but we ’ ll pick ourselves up . we ’ ll keep going . we will finish the race . in the words of dick hoyt , who ’ s pushed his disabled son , rick , in 31 boston marathons -- “ we can ’ t let something like this stop us. ” this doesn ’ t stop us .
so today , i ’ d like to talk about the next chapter in this story . the challenges facing our space program are different , and our imperatives for this program are different , than in decades past . we ’ re no longer racing against an adversary . we ’ re no longer competing to achieve a singular goal like reaching the moon . in fact , what was once a global competition has long since become a global collaboration . but while the measure of our achievements has changed a great deal over the past 50 years , what we do -- or fail to do -- in seeking new frontiers is no less consequential for our future in space and here on earth .
in the year since i asked this congress to raise the minimum wage , five states have passed laws to raise theirs . many businesses have done it on their own . nick chute is here tonight with his boss , john soranno . john 's an owner of punch pizza in minneapolis , and nick helps make the dough . only now he makes more of it : john just gave his employees a raise , to ten bucks an hour -- a decision that eased their financial stress and boosted their morale .
you said the time has come to move beyond the bitterness and pettiness and anger that 's consumed washington ; to end the political strategy that 's been all about division , and instead make it about addition ; to build a coalition for change that stretches through red states and blue states ; because that 's how we 'll win in november , and that 's how we 'll finally meet the challenges that we face as a nation .
edith , in your career , you ’ ve stood up for citizens and communities . i was proud to nominate you -- first as a commissioner , and then as chairwoman of the ftc . you are doing an outstanding job , as are your fellow commissioners , and we very much appreciate your outstanding efforts .
i run for president to make sure that every american child has the best education that we have to offer -- from the day they are born to the day they graduate from college . and i won ’ t just talk about how great teachers are -- as president i will reward them for their greatness -- by raising salaries and giving them more support . that ’ s why i ’ m in this race .
you know , when i first arrived on this campus , it was with little money , fewer options . but it was here that i tried to find my place in this world . i knew i wanted to make a difference , but it was vague how in fact i ’ d go about it . but i wanted to do my part to do my part to shape a better world .
and we also recognize that most of the guns used to commit violence here in mexico come from the united states . i think many of you know that in america , our constitution guarantees our individual right to bear arms , and as president i swore an oath to uphold that right and i always will .
there are places like newark , new jersey , for example , where you ’ ve got 80 , 90 percent of the people without power . we ca n't have a situation where that lasts for days on end . and so my instructions to the federal agency has been , do not figure out why we ca n't do something ; i want you to figure out how we do something . i want you to cut through red tape . i want you to cut through bureaucracy . there ’ s no excuse for inaction at this point . i want every agency to lean forward and to make sure that we are getting the resources where they need -- where they 're needed as quickly as possible .
but let 's not kid ourselves and suggest that we can solve this problem by trimming a few earmarks or cutting the budget for the national endowment for the arts . that 's just not true . along with defense and interest on the national debt , the biggest cost drivers in our budget are entitlement programs like medicare , medicaid , and social security -- all of which get more and more expensive every year . so if we want to get serious about fiscal discipline , and i do , then we 're going to not only have to trim waste out of our discretionary budget -- which we 've already begun -- we will also have to get serious about entitlement reform .
will all of them get through this congress ? i don ’ t know . but what ’ s uppermost in my mind is making sure that i ’ m honest with the american people and with members of congress about what i think will work , what i think is something that will make a difference . and to repeat what i ’ ve said earlier -- if there is a step we can take that will save even one child from what happened in newtown , we should take that step .
now , to protect our planet , now is the time to change the way that we use energy . together , we must confront climate change by ending the world 's dependence on fossil fuels , by tapping the power of new sources of energy like the wind and sun , and calling upon all nations to do their part . and i pledge to you that in this global effort , the united states is now ready to lead .
let me close by saying this : i do not underestimate the enormity of the task that lies ahead . we have taken some major action to date , and we will need further action during this transition and subsequent months . some of the choices that we make are going to be difficult . and i have said before and i will repeat again : it is not going to be quick and it is not going to be easy for us to dig ourselves out of the hole that we are in , but america is a strong and resilient country . and i know we will succeed if we put aside partisanship and politics and work together as one nation . that 's what i intend to do .
thank you all for being here now , tom , it is good to be here today at the chamber of commerce . i 'm here in the interest of being more neighborly . i strolled over from across the street , and look , maybe if we had brought over a fruitcake when i first moved in , we would have gotten off to a better start . but i 'm going to make up for it .
and unfortunately , this pattern of spreading untruths about this legislation served a purpose , because those lies upset an intense minority of gun owners , and that in turn intimidated a lot of senators . and i talked to several of these senators over the past few weeks , and they ’ re all good people . i know all of them were shocked by tragedies like newtown . and i also understand that they come from states that are strongly pro-gun . and i have consistently said that there are regional differences when it comes to guns , and that both sides have to listen to each other .
and then , within a few short years , the world as it was ceased to be . now , make no mistake : this change did not come from any one nation . the cold war reached a conclusion because of the actions of many nations over many years , and because the people of russia and eastern europe stood up and decided that its end would be peaceful .
and let us resolve that when future generations look back on ours , they will be able to say that we did our part to make this world more peaceful . it 's perhaps the most difficult work of all to resolve age-old conflicts , to heal ancient hatreds , to dissolve the lines of suspicion between religions and cultures , and people who may not look like us , or have the same faith that we do , or come from the same place . but just because it 's difficult does not make the work any less important . it does not absolve us from trying .
so if you ’ ve had role models , fathers , brothers like that -- thank them today . and if you haven ’ t , commit yourself to being that man to somebody else .
it was around that time she decided to begin advocating for herself and others like her , and today , astrid silva is a college student working on her third degree are we a nation that kicks out a striving , hopeful immigrant like astrid , or are we a nation that finds a way to welcome her in ? scripture tells us that we shall not oppress a stranger , for we know the heart of a stranger -- we were strangers once , too .
and somehow , we know that the answer is yes . the simple values walter cronkite set out in pursuit of -- to seek the truth , to keep us honest , to explore our world the best he could -- they are as vital today as they ever were .
and she remembered what principal kiner told her : `` you ca n't let the past get you down . you have to let it motivate you . '' and so now here eron is , graduating . she 's going to keep studying to get her barber 's certificate so she can cut hair and save for college . she 's working toward her dream to becoming a lawyer . she 's got a bright future .
and now we in washington and across america have to refuse to give up on the goal of health care that is affordable and accessible for every last one of us . we do n't have to deal with hurricanes and we do n't have to deal with floods and we do n't have to deal with fires ; all we have to do is pass a bill to make sure that the american people have a decent shot at getting the kind of choice and high-quality health care that 's affordable .
these are not just american ideas ; they are human rights . and that is why we will support them everywhere now , there is no straight line to realize this promise . but this much is clear : governments that protect these rights are ultimately more stable , successful , and secure . suppressing ideas never succeeds in making them go away . america -- america respects the right of all peaceful and law-abiding voices to be heard around the world , even if we disagree with them . and we will welcome all elected , peaceful governments -- provided they govern with respect for all their people .
i got in trouble when i was a teenager , did some things folks now like to talk about . i needed some hope to get here . i wasn ’ t born into money , or great wealth , or great privilege , or status .
to the people of south africa , we draw strength from the example of renewal , and reconciliation , and resilience that you made real . a free south africa at peace with itself -- that ’ s an example to the world , and that ’ s madiba ’ s legacy to the nation he loved .
when we helped prevent the massacre of civilians trapped on a distant mountain , here 's what one of them said : `` we owe our american friends our lives . our children will always remember that there was someone who felt our struggle and made a long journey to protect innocent people . ''
but what i ’ ve most looked forward to is the ability to speak directly to you , the israeli people -- especially so many young people who are here today -- to talk about the history that brought us here today , and the future that you will make in the years to come .
so we may face a tough enemy in afghanistan , and we ’ re in a period of tough challenges back home , but we did not become the nation that we are because we do what ’ s easy . as americans we ’ ve endured and we ’ ve grown stronger , and we remain the land of the free only because we are also home of the brave .
in reaffirming the greatness of our nation , we understand that greatness is never a given . it must be earned . our journey has never been one of short-cuts or settling for less . it has not been the path for the faint-hearted -- for those who prefer leisure over work , or seek only the pleasures of riches and fame . rather , it has been the risk-takers , the doers , the makers of things -- some celebrated but more often men and women obscure in their labor , who have carried us up the long , rugged path towards prosperity and freedom .
and for us to be able to gather together business leaders and local elected officials and clergy and celebrities and athletes , and figure out how are we doing a better job helping young african american men feel that they 're a full part of this society and that they 've got pathways and avenues to succeed -- i think that would be a pretty good outcome from what was obviously a tragic situation .
and under eric holder ’ s direction , our justice department is planning to create its first “ fathering re-entry court ” for ex-offender dads -- and to help replicate this program in courts across the country . the idea here is very simple : to reach fathers right as they ’ re leaving the criminal justice system and connect them immediately to the employment and services they need to start making their child support payments and reconnecting them with their families .
we have a sacred duty to remember the cruelty that occurred here , as told in the simple objects that speak to us even now : the suitcases that still bear their names ; the wooden clogs they wore ; the round bowls from which they ate ; those brick buildings from which there was no escape -- where so many jews died with sh ’ ma israel on their lips ; and the very earth at auschwitz , which is still hallowed by their ashes -- jews and those who tried to save them , polish and hungarian , french and dutch , roma and russian , straight and gay , and so many others .
and that ’ s why , over the next several weeks , in towns across this country , i will be engaging the american people in this debate . i 'll lay out my ideas for how we build on the cornerstones of what it means to be middle class in america , and what it takes to work your way into the middle class in america : job security , with good wages and durable industries .
i ca n't run for the presidency . people start telling you -- you ca n't do something , after a while , you start believing it and part of what the civil rights movement was about was recognizing that we have to transform ourselves in order to transform the world .
thank you . may god bless you . may he continue to bless this country we love . thank you . good afternoon , everybody . today , the united states -- together with our allies and partners -- has reached a historic understanding with iran , which , if fully implemented , will prevent it from obtaining a nuclear weapon .
and that ’ s why president peña nieto and i announced a new partnership in higher education -- to encourage more collaboration between our universities and our university students . we ’ re going to focus on science and technology , on engineering and mathematics . and this is part of my broader initiative called 100,000 strong in the americas . we want 100,000 students from the united states studying in latin america , including mexico . and we want 100,000 latin american students , including mexican students , to come to study in the united states of america . because when we study together , and we learn together , we work together , and we prosper together -- that 's what i believe .
third , we could pull out of negotiations , try to get other countries to go along and continue sanctions that are currently in place or add additional ones , and hope for the best -- knowing that every time we have done so , iran has not capitulated but instead has advanced its program , and that in very short order , the breakout timeline would be eliminated and a nuclear arms race in the region could be triggered because of that uncertainty . in other words , the third option leads us very quickly back to a decision about whether or not to take military action , because we ’ d have no idea what was going on inside of iran .
so i ’ ve deepened america ’ s ties with southeast asia because your region is critical to our shared future . there are more than 600 million people who live in the asean countries , and you reflect an incredible diversity of faiths and ethnic groups and backgrounds and cultures . and that diversity has to be celebrated and it has to be protected . we have incredible economic engines like singapore . we ’ ve got growing economies like the philippines and vietnam and malaysia . and we can see growth that is lifting people out of poverty and creating more jobs and trade and opportunity for all our countries .
i know israel has taken risks for peace . brave leaders -- menachem begin , yitzhak rabin -- reached treaties with two of your neighbors . you made credible proposals to the palestinians at annapolis . you withdrew from gaza and lebanon , and then faced terror and rockets . across the region , you ’ ve extended a hand of friendship and all too often you ’ ve been confronted with rejection and , in some cases , the ugly reality of anti-semitism . so i believe that the israeli people do want peace , and i also understand why too many israelis -- maybe an increasing number , maybe a lot of young people here today -- are skeptical that it can be achieved .
think about it . over the next 10 years , nearly half of all new jobs will require education that goes beyond a high school education . and yet , as many as a quarter of our students aren ’ t even finishing high school . the quality of our math and science education lags behind many other nations . america has fallen to ninth in the proportion of young people with a college degree . and so the question is whether all of us –- as citizens , and as parents –- are willing to do what ’ s necessary to give every child a chance to succeed .
i think about greensburg , kansas , a town that was completely destroyed by a tornado , but is being rebuilt by its residents as a global example of how clean energy can power an entire community – how it can bring jobs and businesses to a place where piles of bricks and rubble once lay . `` the tragedy was terrible , '' said one of the men who helped them rebuild . `` but the folks here know that it also provided an incredible opportunity . ''
last year , we prayed together for pastor saeed abedini , detained in iran since 2012. and i was recently in boise , idaho , and had the opportunity to meet with pastor abedini 's beautiful wife and wonderful children and to convey to them that our country has not forgotten brother saeed and that we 're doing everything we can to bring him home . and then , i received an extraordinary letter from pastor abedini . and in it , he describes his captivity , and expressed his gratitude for my visit with his family , and thanked us all for standing in solidarity with him during his captivity .
that 's why i strongly stand by my plan to end this war . now , prime minister maliki 's call for a timetable for the removal of u.s. forces presents a real opportunity . it comes at a time when the american general in charge of training iraq 's security forces has testified that iraq 's army and police will be ready to assume responsibility for iraq 's security in 2009. now is the time for a responsible redeployment of our combat troops that pushes iraq 's leaders toward a political solution , rebuilds our military , and refocuses on afghanistan and our broader security interests .
and that ’ s our obligation . that ’ s a task we should gladly embrace on behalf of all of those folks who are counting on us ; on behalf of this country that ’ s given us so much .
altogether , this budget will reduce discretionary spending for domestic programs as a share of the economy by more than 10 percent over the next decade to the lowest level we 've seen since we began keeping records nearly half a century ago . and as we continue to go through the federal budget line by line , we will be announcing additional savings , secured by eliminating and consolidating programs that we do n't need so we can make room for the things that we do need .
let me summarize just by saying that i ’ m extraordinarily grateful for the cooperation of our state and local officials . the conversations that i ’ ve had with all the governors indicate that at this point there are no unmet needs . i think everybody is taking this very seriously . we ’ ve gotten prepositioned all the resources that we need .
change is building an economy that rewards not just wealth , but the work and the workers who created it . it ’ s understanding that the struggles facing working families can ’ t be solved by spending billions of dollars on more tax breaks for big corporations and wealthy ceos , but by giving a middle-class tax break to those who need it , and investing in our crumbling infrastructure , and transforming how we use energy , and improving our schools , and renewing our commitment to science and innovation . it ’ s understanding that fiscal responsibility and shared prosperity can go hand-in-hand , as they did when bill clinton was president .
now , i do n't think we could ever fully repay that debt . i think that we 're always going to be looking back , but there are at least a few suggestions that i would have in terms of how we might fulfill that enormous legacy . the first is to recognize our history . john lewis talked about why we 're here today . but i worry sometimes -- we 've got black history month , we come down and march every year , once a year . we occasionally celebrate the various events of the civil rights movement , we celebrate dr. king 's birthday , but it strikes me that understanding our history and knowing what it means , is an everyday activity .
my fellow americans , we live in a time of great change . tomorrow marks 13 years since our country was attacked . next week marks six years since our economy suffered its worst setback since the great depression . yet despite these shocks , through the pain we have felt and the grueling work required to bounce back , america is better positioned today to seize the future than any other nation on earth .
race to the top is the most meaningful reform of our public schools in a generation . for less than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year , it has led over 40 states to raise their standards for teaching and learning . and these standards were developed , by the way , not by washington , but by republican and democratic governors throughout the country . and race to the top should be the approach we follow this year as we replace no child left behind with a law that ’ s more flexible and focused on what ’ s best for our kids .
like generations have before us , we must reject that future . as dr. king said at this occasion so many years ago , `` i refuse to accept despair as the final response to the ambiguities of history . i refuse to accept the idea that the 'isness ' of man 's present condition makes him morally incapable of reaching up for the eternal 'oughtness ' that forever confronts him . '' let us reach for the world that ought to be -- that spark of the divine that still st [ i ] rs within each of our souls .
but the one thing i know is countries that divide themselves on racial or religious lines , they do not succeed . they do not succeed . that ’ s rule number one . rule number two is nations that suppress their women do not succeed . they don ’ t succeed . not only is it bad because half of the country is not successful -- because they ’ re not getting education and opportunity -- but it ’ s women who teach children , which means the children are less educated , if you ’ re not teaching the moms . so there are some -- each country is different , but there are some rules if you look at development patterns around the world that are pretty consistent . and those are two pretty good rules .
the syrian people have the right to be freed from the grip of a dictator who would rather kill his own people than relinquish power . assad must go so that syria ’ s future can begin . because true stability in syria depends upon establishing a government that is responsible to its people -- one that protects all communities within its borders , while making peace with countries beyond them .
moreover , much of our critical infrastructure -- our financial systems , power grids , pipelines , health care systems -- run on networks connected to the internet . so this is a matter of public safety and of public health . and most of this infrastructure is owned and operated by the private sector . so neither government , nor the private sector can defend the nation alone . it ’ s going to have to be a shared mission -- government and industry working hand in hand , as partners .
and it is my duty to ensure that no diversion complicates the vital mission that they are carrying out . that includes adherence to a strict code of conduct . the strength and greatness of our military is rooted in the fact that this code applies equally to newly enlisted privates and to the general officer who commands them . that allows us to come together as one . that 's part of the reason why america has the finest fighting force in the history of the world .
in the war 's final weeks , aboard grant 's flagship , the river queen , president lincoln was asked what was to be done with the rebel armies once general lee surrendered . with victory at hand , lincoln could have sought revenge .
and we 're going to spend some time working on that and thinking about that and then , finally , i think it 's going to be important for all of us to do some soul-searching . there has been talk about should we convene a conversation on race . i have n't seen that be particularly productive when politicians try to organize conversations .
as president , i ’ ve eliminated dozens of programs that weren ’ t working , and announced over 500 regulatory reforms that will save businesses and taxpayers billions , and put annual domestic spending on a path to become the smallest share of the economy since dwight eisenhower held this office -- since before i was born . i know that the true engine of job creation in this country is the private sector , not washington , which is why i ’ ve cut taxes for small business owners 17 times over the last three years .
finally , we 're no longer seeing the severe deterioration in the job market that we once were . in fact we learned on friday that the unemployment rate fell slightly last month . this is welcome news , and news made possible in part by the up to 1.6 million jobs that the recovery act has already created and saved according to the congressional budget office .
the task i have described will not be easy . some 1.5 billion people around the world are already online , and more are logging on every day . groups and governments are sharpening their cyber capabilities . protecting our prosperity and security in this globalized world is going to be a long , difficult struggle demanding patience and persistence over many years .
there ’ s nothing fast-track about this . this is a very deliberate track -- which will be fully subject to scrutiny . and i ’ m confident when people read the agreement for themselves , they ’ ll see that this is the most progressive trade deal in history .
coming to a theater near you . let me close on a serious note . we are having a good time , but as has been true for the last several years , we have incredible young men and women who are serving in uniform overseas in the most extraordinary of circumstances . and we are reminded of their courage and their valor .
in the next few weeks , i will sign an executive order clearing away the red tape that slows down too many construction projects . but you need to fund these projects . take the money we ’ re no longer spending at war , use half of it to pay down our debt , and use the rest to do some nation-building right here at home .
our most urgent task is to restore our economy , and put the millions of americans who have lost their jobs back to work . to strengthen our middle class , we must give all our children the education they deserve , and all our workers the skills that they need to compete in a global economy . we must jumpstart industries that create jobs , and end our dependence on foreign oil . we must unleash the innovation that allows new products to roll off our assembly lines , and nurture the ideas that spring from our entrepreneurs . this will be difficult . but in the days to come , it must be our central mission as a people , and my central responsibility as president .
i want to thank every member of congress who stood up tonight with courage and conviction to make health care reform a reality . and i know this wasn ’ t an easy vote for a lot of people .
first , we ’ ll work with local leaders to cut through red tape and improve things like public safety and education and housing . and we ’ ll bring all the resources to bear in a coordinated fashion so that we can get that tipping point where suddenly a community starts feeling like things are changing and we can come back .
as is true across the landscape of american history , we can not examine this moment in isolation . the march on selma was part of a broader campaign that spanned generations ; the leaders that day part of a long line of heroes .
even in the eyes of confederate soldiers , he saw the face of god . remember william wilberforce , whose christian faith led him to seek slavery 's abolition in britain ; he was vilified , derided , attacked ; but he called for `` lessening prejudices [ and ] conciliating good-will , and thereby making way for the less obstructed progress of truth . ''
so isil poses a threat to the people of iraq and syria , and the broader middle east -- including american citizens , personnel and facilities . if left unchecked , these terrorists could pose a growing threat beyond that region , including to the united states . while we have not yet detected specific plotting against our homeland , isil leaders have threatened america and our allies . our intelligence community believes that thousands of foreigners -– including europeans and some americans –- have joined them in syria and iraq . trained and battle-hardened , these fighters could try to return to their home countries and carry out deadly attacks .
part of the goal for asean countries , most of them are now entering into a stage of development where they don ’ t want to just be sending raw materials to someplace else to have them developed , they want to be creating value starting their own businesses , making sure that they are part of the 21st century economy . and that requires upgrading skills , education for their populations . we think we can be helpful in those areas .
you know , in the last months , we ’ ve seen journalists threatened , arrested , beaten , attacked , and in some cases even killed simply for doing their best to bring us the story , to give people a voice , and to hold leaders accountable . and through it all , we ’ ve seen daring men and women risk their lives for the simple idea that no one should be silenced , and everyone deserves to know the truth .
god bless you , and may god bless the united states of america . thank you , miami dade ! thank you . please , everyone , be seated . hafeeza , thank you for that wonderful introduction . to dr. padrón , dr. vicente , to the board of trustees , the faculty , parents , family , friends , and , most important , the class of 2011 , congratulations -- congratulations on reaching this day .
if that happens , and we default , we would not have enough money to pay all of our bills -– bills that include monthly social security checks , veterans ’ benefits , and the government contracts we ’ ve signed with thousands of businesses .
i raise all this because nearly 50 years after the march on washington , our work , dr. king ’ s work , is not yet complete . we gather here at a moment of great challenge and great change .
i ’ ve spoken to the leaders of two of our closest allies , france and the united kingdom , and we will work together in consultation with russia and china to put forward a resolution at the u.n. security council requiring assad to give up his chemical weapons , and to ultimately destroy them under international control .
having put al qaeda on the path to defeat , we won ’ t relent until the job is done . having started to draw down our forces in afghanistan , we ’ ll bring home 33,000 troops by next summer and bring home more troops in the coming years . as our mission transitions from combat to support , afghans will take responsibility for their own security , and the longest war in american history will come to a responsible end .
and that ’ s one of the best things that can happen for our businesses and our workers -- opening up markets that have previously been closed , particularly markets where they ’ re already selling stuff here . there ’ s a lack of reciprocity . it ’ s not a fair deal right now . we want to make it fair .
now let me be clear once more : the united states and the international community seek a resolution to our differences with iran , and the door remains open to diplomacy should iran choose to walk through it . but the iranian government must demonstrate a clear and credible commitment and confirm to the world the peaceful intent of its nuclear program .
now , understand , nobody is talking about creating an entirely new system . we are simply talking about plugging holes , sealing a porous system that is n't working as well as it should . if you want to buy a gun , whether it 's from a licensed dealer or a private seller , you should at least have to pass a background check to show you 're not a criminal or someone legally prohibited from buying on . and that ’ s just common sense .
so what do we do about this ? how does america find its way in this new , global economy ? what will our place in history be ? like so much of the american story , once again , we face a choice . once again , there are those who believe that there isn ’ t much we can do about this as a nation . that the best idea is to give everyone one big refund on their government -- divvy it up by individual portions , in the form of tax breaks , hand it out , and encourage everyone to use their share to go buy their own health care , their own retirement plan , their own child care , their own education , and so on .
some of people 's concerns have grown out of bogus claims spread by those whose only agenda is to kill reform at any cost . the best example is the claim made not just by radio and cable talk show hosts , but by prominent politicians , that we plan to set up panels of bureaucrats with the power to kill off senior citizens . now , such a charge would be laughable if it were n't so cynical and irresponsible . it is a lie , plain and simple .
and they ’ re wondering , perhaps if northern ireland can achieve peace , we can , too . you ’ re their blueprint to follow . you ’ re their proof of what is possible -- because hope is contagious .
third , i 've directed my national security team to keep up the pressure on those who would attack our country . we do not yet have all the answers about this latest attempt , but those who would slaughter innocent men , women , and children must know that the united states will more -- do more than simply strengthen our defenses . we will continue to use every element of our national power to disrupt , to dismantle , and defeat the violent extremists who threaten us , whether they are from afghanistan or pakistan , yemen or somalia , or anywhere where they are plotting attacks against the u.s. homeland .
and so at this moment , when our politics appear so sharply polarized , and faith in our institutions so greatly diminished , we need more than ever to take heed of dr. king ’ s teachings . he calls on us to stand in the other person ’ s shoes ; to see through their eyes ; to understand their pain . he tells us that we have a duty to fight against poverty , even if we are well off ; to care about the child in the decrepit school even if our own children are doing fine ; to show compassion toward the immigrant family , with the knowledge that most of us are only a few generations removed from similar hardships .
government and businesses , parents and citizens . in this economy , a higher education is the surest route to the middle class . the unemployment rate for americans with a college degree or more is about half the national average .
and we ’ ll be there for your when you come home . it ’ s why we ’ re improving care for our wounded warriors , especially those with ptsd and traumatic brain injuries . we ’ re moving forward with the post-9/11 gi bill so you and your families can pursue your dreams . and we ’ ve made the biggest increase in the va budget in 30 years , because we ’ re going to keep our sacred trust with all those who serve .
king understood that the desegregation of the armed forces didn ’ t end the civil rights movement , because black and white soldiers still could n't sit together at the same lunch counter when they came home .
in recent years , one in four of america ’ s new small business owners were immigrants . one in four high-tech startups in america were founded by immigrants . forty percent of fortune 500 companies were started by a first- or second-generation american . think about that -- almost half of the fortune 500 companies when they were started were started by first- or second-generation immigrants . so immigration isn ’ t just part of our national character . it is a driving force in our economy that creates jobs and prosperity for all of our citizens .
tim served with distinction under both democrats and republicans and has a long history of working comfortably and as an honest broker on both sides of the aisle . with stellar performances and outstanding results at every stage of his career , tim has earned the confidence and respect of business , financial , and community leaders , members of congress , and political leaders around the world .
they were white and black and brown -- men and women and some children made up of all races , many faiths . they were americans and people from far corners of the world . and they were snatched from us senselessly and much too soon -- but they lived well , and they live on in you .
it let ’ s us say to the child who was born into poverty -- pull yourself up by your bootstraps . and it is especially tempting because each of us believes we will always be the winner in life ’ s lottery , that we ’ re the one who will be the next donald trump , or at least we won ’ t be the chump who donald trump says : “ you ’ re fired !
in an ordinary local bank when it approaches insolvency , we ’ ve got a process , an orderly process through the fdic , that ensures that depositors are protected , maintains confidence in the banking system , and it works . customers and taxpayers are protected and owners and management lose their equity . but we don ’ t have that kind of process designed to contain the failure of a lehman brothers or any of the largest and most interconnected financial firms in our country .
[ audience chants `` we are nd ! we are nd ! '' ] president obama : we 're fine , everybody . we 're -- we 're following brennan 's adage that we do n't do things easily . we want to -- we 're -- we 're not going to shy away from things that are uncomfortable sometimes .
and because they kept marching , america changed . because they marched , a civil rights law was passed . because they marched , a voting rights law was signed . because they marched , doors of opportunity and education swung open so their daughters and sons could finally imagine a life for themselves beyond washing somebody else ’ s laundry or shining somebody else ’ s shoes . because they marched , city councils changed and state legislatures changed , and congress changed , and , yes , eventually , the white house changed .
those words must guide our response to the change that is transforming the middle east and north africa -- words which tell us that repression will fail , and that tyrants will fall , and that every man and woman is endowed with certain inalienable rights .
but as i said yesterday , and as i repeated in the meeting that we just left , i ultimately take responsibility for solving this crisis . i ’ m the president and the buck stops with me . so i give the people of this community and the entire gulf my word that we ’ re going to hold ourselves accountable to do whatever it takes for as long as it takes to stop this catastrophe , to defend our natural resources , to repair the damage , and to keep this region on its feet . justice will be done for those whose lives have been upended by this disaster , for the families of those whose lives have been lost -- that is a solemn pledge that i am making .
today , i ask the world to join in this effort . those who have joined isil should leave the battlefield while they can . those who continue to fight for a hateful cause will find they are increasingly alone . for we will not succumb to threats , and we will demonstrate that the future belongs to those who build -- not those who destroy . so that 's an immediate challenge , the first challenge that we must meet .
in cuba , we are ending a policy that was long past its expiration date . when what you ’ re doing doesn ’ t work for 50 years , it ’ s time to try something new . and our shift in cuba policy has the potential to end a legacy of mistrust in our hemisphere . it removes a phony excuse for restrictions in cuba . it stands up for democratic values , and extends the hand of friendship to the cuban people . and this year , congress should begin the work of ending the embargo .
this means patiently supporting transitions to democracy in places like egypt and tunisia and libya -- because the peaceful realization of individual aspirations will serve as a rebuke to violent extremists . we must strengthen the opposition in syria , while isolating extremist elements -- because the end of a tyrant must not give way to the tyranny of terrorism . we are actively working to promote peace between israelis and palestinians -- because it is right and because such a peace could help reshape attitudes in the region . and we must help countries modernize economies , upgrade education , and encourage entrepreneurship -- because american leadership has always been elevated by our ability to connect with people ’ s hopes , and not simply their fears .
one of the things we celebrate on friday –- one of the things that make this country great –- is that we are a nation of immigrants . our people come from every corner of the globe . that 's what makes us special . that 's what makes us unique . and throughout our history , we ’ ve come here in wave after wave from everywhere understanding that there was something about this place where the whole was greater than the sum of its parts ; that all the different cultures and ideas and energy would come together and create something new .
but let me be clear -- let me be clear -- the overwhelming number of teachers are doing an outstanding job under difficult circumstances . my sister is a teacher , so i know how tough teaching can be .
justice stevens has courageously served his country from the moment he enlisted the day before pearl harbor to his long and distinguished tenure on the supreme court . during that tenure , he has stood as an impartial guardian of the law . he has worn the judicial robe with honor and humility . he has applied the constitution and the laws of the land with fidelity and restraint . he will soon turn 90 this month , but he leaves his position at the top of his game . his leadership will be sorely missed , and i just had an opportunity to speak with him and told him on behalf of a grateful nation , that i thanked him for his service .
those practices will end if this reform becomes law , all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their customers . if you buy a new plan , there won ’ t be lifetime or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care you receive from your insurance companies . and by the way , to all the young people here today , starting this year if you don ’ t have insurance , all new plans will allow you to stay on your parents ’ plan until you are 26 years old .
but if you agree that the system is not working for ordinary families , if you ’ ve heard the same stories that i ’ ve heard everywhere , all across the country , then help us fix this system . do n't do it for me . don ’ t do it for nancy pelosi or harry reid . do it for all those people out there who are struggling .
through it all , we have never relinquished our skepticism of central authority , nor have we succumbed to the fiction that all societies ills can be cured through government alone . our celebration of initiative and enterprise , our insistence on hard work and personal responsibility , these are constants in our character .
i am sending this congress a plan that you should pass right away . it ’ s called the american jobs act . there should be nothing controversial about this piece of legislation . everything in here is the kind of proposal that ’ s been supported by both democrats and republicans -- including many who sit here tonight . and everything in this bill will be paid for . everything .
and pastor abedini wrote , nothing is more valuable to the body of christ than to see how the lord is in control , and moves ahead of countries and leadership through united prayer .
and because our economic future depends on our leadership in the industries of the future , we are investing in basic applied research , and working to create the incentives to build a new clean energy economy . for we know the nation that leads in clean energy will be the nation that leads the world . i want america to be that nation . i want america 's prosperity to be powered by what we invent and pioneer -- not just what we borrow and what we consume . and i know that we can and will be that nation if we are willing to do what it takes to get there .
every night i read letters and e-mails sent to me from people across america -- ordinary folks , people who share their hopes and their hardships , their faith in this country , their frustration with what 's happened in this economy . i hear from small business owners worried about making payroll , keeping their doors open . i hear from mothers and fathers , sons and daughters , who 've seen one or two or more family members out of work . the toughest letters are in children 's handwriting -- kids write to me , my dad just lost a job ; my grandma is sick , she ca n't afford health insurance -- kids who ca n't just be kids because they 're worried about mom having her hours cut or dad losing a job , or a family without health insurance .
but having made my decision as commander-in-chief based on what i am convinced is our national security interests , i 'm also mindful that i 'm the president of the world 's oldest constitutional democracy . i 've long believed that our power is rooted not just in our military might , but in our example as a government of the people , by the people , and for the people . and that 's why i 've made a second decision : i will seek authorization for the use of force from the american people 's representatives in congress .
technology is putting power into the hands of the people . the youth are delivering a powerful rebuke to dictatorship , and rejecting the lie that some races , some peoples , some religions , some ethnicities do not desire democracy .
everybody here has got a unique story like that to tell . each of you knows what it took for you to get here . but in reaching this milestone , there is a common lesson shared by every graduate in this hall . and chris said it himself in a recent interview : `` it 's not where you are or what you are . it 's who you are . ''
i know many americans are wondering what happens next . and passing this bill ca n't be the end of our work to strengthen our economy ; it must be the beginning . because one thing i -- i think all of us who may end up supporting this bill understand is that , even if we get this in place , we could still have enormous problems and probably will have big problems in the economy over the next several months and potentially longer ; because the fact is , is that we have seen some mismanagement of the fundamentals of the economy for a very long time , and we are not going to dig ourselves out of that hole immediately .
madam chairwoman , delegates , i accept your nomination for president of the united states . now , the first time i addressed this convention in 2004 , i was a younger man ; a senate candidate from illinois who spoke about hope -- not blind optimism , not wishful thinking , but hope in the face of difficulty ; hope in the face of uncertainty , that dogged faith in the future which has pushed this nation forward , even when the odds are great , even when the road is long .
and so i don ’ t think that it ’ s so much we have to persuade anybody . the issue of the state sponsor of terrorism list -- as you know , the state department has provided a recommendation ; it ’ s gone through our interagency process . i ’ ll be honest with you , i have been on the road , and i want to make sure that i have a chance to read it , study it , before we announce publicly what the policy outcome is going to be .
i ’ ve said it before ; i will say it again : we can ’ t balance the budget on the backs of the very people who have borne the biggest brunt of this recession . we can ’ t make it tougher for young people to go to college , or ask seniors to pay more for health care , or ask scientists to give up on promising medical research because we couldn ’ t close a tax shelter for the most fortunate among us . everyone is going to have to chip in . it ’ s only fair . that ’ s the principle i ’ ll be fighting for during the next phase of this process .
and ashley asks him why is he there . and he doesn ’ t bring up a specific issue . he does not say healthcare or the economy . he doesn ’ t talk about the iraq war .
so that 's our proposal . this is where we 've ended up . it 's an approach that has been debated and changed and i believe improved over the last year . it incorporates the best ideas from democrats and republicans -- - including some of the ideas that republicans offered during the health care summit , like funding state grants on medical malpractice reform , and curbing waste and fraud and abuse in the health care system . my proposal also gets rid of many of the provisions that had no place in health care reform -- provisions that were more about winning individual votes in congress than improving health care for all americans .
but i think it ’ s very important for us to make sure that we do n't get out ahead of the facts . and at this point , in terms of identifying specifically what individual or group of individuals or personnel ordered the strike , how it came about , those are things that i think are still going to be subject to additional information that we ’ re going to be gathering . and we ’ re working with the entire international community to make sure that the focus is on getting to the bottom of this thing and being truthful .
without these nurses , many people in cities and rural areas would have no access to care at all . now , all of these steps are part of a larger effort to make our system work better for nurses and for doctors , and to improve the quality of care for patients . and by focusing on primary medicine , we will finally recognize the role of all talented and skilled health care providers -- including nurses .
now part of this conviction is rooted in my own experience . i 'm a christian , but my father came from a kenyan family that includes generations of muslims . as a boy , i spent several years in indonesia and heard the call of the azaan at the break of dawn and at the fall of dusk . as a young man , i worked in chicago communities where many found dignity and peace in their muslim faith .
the defining issue of our time is how to keep that promise alive . no challenge is more urgent . no debate is more important . we can either settle for a country where a shrinking number of people do really well while a growing number of americans barely get by , or we can restore an economy where everyone gets a fair shot , and everyone does their fair share , and everyone plays by the same set of rules . what ’ s at stake aren ’ t democratic values or republican values , but american values . and we have to reclaim them .
as we have for over 60 years , america takes these actions because our destiny is connected to those beyond our shores . but we also do it because it is right . that 's why , as we meet here tonight , over 10,000 americans are working with many nations to help the people of haiti recover and rebuild . that 's why we stand with the girl who yearns to go to school in afghanistan ; why we support the human rights of the women marching through the streets of iran ; why we advocate for the young man denied a job by corruption in guinea . for america must always stand on the side of freedom and human dignity . always .
the united states could have been merely another destination in that ongoing diaspora . but those who came here found that america was more than just a country . america was an idea . america stood for something . as george washington wrote to the jews of newport , rhode island : the united states “ gives to bigotry no sanction , to persecution no assistance . ”
to combat the poverty that punishes our children , we must act on the belief that freedom from want is a basic human right . the united states has made it a focus of our engagement abroad to help people to feed themselves . and today , as drought and conflict have brought famine to the horn of africa , our conscience calls on us to act . together , we must continue to provide assistance , and support organizations that can reach those in need . and together , we must insist on unrestricted humanitarian access so that we can save the lives of thousands of men and women and children . our common humanity is at stake . let us show that the life of a child in somalia is as precious as any other . that is what our commitment to our fellow human beings demand .
the ability to compete in the global economy depends on us having the world ’ s most skilled , best-educated workforce . and by the way , let me just add , it ’ s also going to be critical for us to maintain our democracy in a complex , diverse society .
and you ’ ve proven yourselves physically -- a herndon climb of two minutes , five seconds . now that they put the grease back on , no one will ever match your time . more importantly , last month i welcomed coach ken and the team back to the white house because you beat air force , you beat army , and you brought the commander-in-chief ’ s trophy back to annapolis .
of course , all relationships have their ups and downs . admittedly , ours got off on the wrong foot with a small scrape about tea and taxes . there may also have been some hurt feelings when the white house was set on fire during the war of 1812. but fortunately , it ’ s been smooth sailing ever since .
so peace is necessary . but peace is also just . peace is also just . there is no question that israel has faced palestinian factions who turned to terror , leaders who missed historic opportunities . that is all true . and that ’ s why security must be at the center of any agreement . and there is no question that the only path to peace is through negotiations -- which is why , despite the criticism we ’ ve received , the united states will oppose unilateral efforts to bypass negotiations through the united nations . it has to be done by the parties . but the palestinian people ’ s right to self-determination , their right to justice , must also be recognized .
so if we ’ re going to prevent people from being susceptible to the false promises of extremism , then the international community has to offer something better . and the united states intends to do its part . we will keep promoting development and growth that is broadly shared , so more people can provide for their families . we ’ ll keep leading a global effort against corruption , because the culture of the bribe has to be replaced by good governance that doesn ’ t favor certain groups over others .
and , finally , our nations are strongest when we empower our young people –- because ultimately , you 're the one who has to break down these old stereotypes and these old barriers , these old ways of thinking . prejudices and stereotypes and assumptions -- those are what happens to old minds like mine . i 'm getting gray hair now . i was more youthful when i first started this office . and that 's why young people are so important in these efforts .
and that ’ s why the united states has to continue to partner with countries that pursue the broad-based economic growth that gives people and nations a path out of poverty . and that ’ s what we ’ re seeing here in chile . as part of our new approach to development , we ’ re working with partners , like guatemala and el salvador , who are committed to building their own capacity -- from helping farmers improve crop yields to helping health care systems to deliver better care .
past generations have passed on this precious gift to us , and future generations are depending on us . and as i look out on each and every one of your faces , i ’ m absolutely confident that you will meet that challenge .
so i just want to make very clear that when we speak out on something like human rights , it ’ s not because we think we are perfect , but it is because we think the ideal of not jailing people if they disagree with you is the right ideal .
what i said was we were n't going to extend bush tax cuts for the wealthy -- and we did n't . now , you can argue that during the campaign i said -- i set the criteria for wealthy at $ 250,000 and we ended up being at $ 400,000 .
now , let me describe to you the trajectory we need to be on . first , the united states will take concrete steps towards a world without nuclear weapons . to put an end to cold war thinking , we will reduce the role of nuclear weapons in our national security strategy , and urge others to do the same . make no mistake : as long as these weapons exist , the united states will maintain a safe , secure and effective arsenal to deter any adversary , and guarantee that defense to our allies -- including the czech republic . but we will begin the work of reducing our arsenal .
with respect to the second question , as you ’ re aware , before this terrible incident happened we had already ratcheted up sanctions against russia . and i think the concern not just of russian officials but of the markets about the impact that this could have on the russian economy is there for all to see .
so what i 'm focused on right now is solving this problem . i ’ m not focused on the politics of it , i 'm not focused on the theater of it . and my strong suggestion would be that members of congress , as they evaluate it , stay similarly focused .
as i said on tuesday night , the american people voted for action , not politics as usual . you elected us to focus on your jobs , not ours . and in that spirit , i ’ ve invited leaders of both parties to the white house next week , so we can start to build consensus around the challenges that we can only solve together . and i also intend to bring in business and labor and civic leaders from all across the country here to washington to get their ideas and input as well .
to the dedicated cgi staff and every organization that 's made commitments and touched the lives of hundreds of millions of people , thank you for being an example of what we need more of in the world , especially in washington -- working together to actually solve problems .
rather than turn inward and wall off america from the rest of the world , we ’ ve chosen to stand up forcefully for the ideals and the rights we believe are universal for all men and women .
to the people of the gulf coast : i know that you ’ ve weathered your fair share of trials and tragedy . i know there have been times where you ’ ve wondered if you were being asked to face them alone .
with respect to the effect of sanctions on the economy , we have consistently tried to tailor these sanctions in ways that would have an impact on russia , on their economy , on their institutions or individuals that are aiding and abetting in the activities that are taking place in eastern ukraine , while minimizing the impacts on not only the u.s. economy but the global economy .
his endless inquisitiveness about our world , i can imagine , came from a mother who sold encyclopedias for a living . as a boy , walter spent countless hours getting lost within their pages , endlessly sidetracked by new and interesting entries that branched off from one another , fascinated by the world around us and how it worked .
i think about the young sailor i met at walter reed hospital still recovering from a grenade attack that would cause him to have his leg amputated above the knee . and six months ago we would watch him walk into a white house dinner honoring those who served in iran [ iraq ] , tall and 20 pounds heavier , dashing in his uniform , with a big grin on his face , sturdy on his new leg . and i remember how a few months after that i would watch him on a bicycle , racing with his fellow wounded warriors on a sparkling spring day , inspiring other heroes who had just begun the hard path he had traveled . he gives me hope . he gives me hope .
it poisons the well of public opinion . it leaves each side little room to negotiate with the other . it makes politics an all-or-nothing sport , where one side is either always right or always wrong when , in reality , neither side has a monopoly on truth .
if the laws on our books are inadequate to prevent such a spill , or if we did not enforce those laws , then i want to know . i want to know what worked and what didn ’ t work in our response to the disaster , and where oversight of the oil and gas industry broke down .
tim pawlenty ? he seems all american . but have you heard his real middle name ? tim “ hosni ” pawlenty ? what a shame . my buddy , our outstanding ambassador , jon huntsman , is with us . now , there ’ s something you might not know about jon . he didn ’ t learn to speak chinese to go there . oh , no . he learned english to come here .
that ’ s the kind of action we need . now it ’ s time to clear the way for a series of trade agreements that would make it easier for american companies to sell their products in panama and colombia and south korea -– while also helping the workers whose jobs have been affected by global competition .
now , the very fact that this crisis is largely of our own making means that it 's not beyond our ability to solve . our problems are rooted in past mistakes , not our capacity for future greatness .
race to the top , with the help of governors from both parties , has helped states raise expectations and performance . teachers and principals in schools from tennessee to washington , d.c. are making big strides in preparing students with skills for the new economy -- problem solving , critical thinking , science , technology , engineering , and math .
that ’ s one of the reasons i acted to lift the shadow of deportation from what we call the dreamers -- young people brought to the united states as children . and that ’ s why i ’ m working with our congress to pass common-sense immigration reform this year .
i had a chance to reflect on this last month when i was in the small town of selma , alabama . some of you may have heard of it . it ’ s a place where , 50 years ago , african-americans marched in peaceful , nonviolent protest -- not to ask for special treatment but to be treated equally , in accordance with the founding documents of our declaration of independence , our bill of rights . they were part of a civil rights movement that had endured violence and repression for decades , and would endure it again that day , as many of the marchers were beaten .
theirs are the stories and voices we carry on from south carolina -- the mother who ca n't get medicaid to cover all the needs of her sick child . she needs us to pass a health care plan that cuts costs and makes health care available and affordable for every single american . that 's what she 's looking for .
and jonathan blunk -- from reno , just 26 years old , but a veteran of three navy tours , whose family and friends will always know that in that theater he gave his own life to save another .
will we accept an economy where only a few of us do spectacularly well ? or will we commit ourselves to an economy that generates rising incomes and chances for everyone who makes the effort ?
so tonight , i 'm proposing that we take 30 billion dollars of the money wall street banks have repaid and use it to help community banks give small businesses the credit they need to stay afloat . i 'm also proposing a new small business tax credit -- one that will go to over one million small businesses who hire new workers or raise wages . while we 're at it , let 's also eliminate all capital gains taxes on small business investment , and provide a tax incentive for all large businesses and all small businesses to invest in new plants and equipment .
that ’ s why , even though i knew it wouldn ’ t be politically popular , and resisted the idea when i ran for this office , we ultimately included a provision in the affordable care act that people who can afford to buy health insurance should take the responsibility to do so . in fact , this idea has enjoyed support from members of both parties , including the current republican nominee for president .
but we can ’ t lose sight of the fact that the status quo before the affordable care act was not working at all . if the health care system had been working fine , and everybody had high-quality health insurance at affordable prices , i wouldn ’ t have made it a priority ; we wouldn ’ t have been fighting this hard to get it done -- which is why , when i see sometimes folks up on capitol hill , and republicans in particular , who have been suggesting repeal , repeal , let ’ s get rid of this thing , i keep on asking what is it that you want to do ? are you suggesting that the status quo was working ? because it wasn ’ t , and everybody knows it .
but we ’ ve got to learn the right lessons from that . the lesson is not that we pull up the drawbridge and build a moat around ourselves . the lesson is , is that we ’ ve got to make sure that the trade deals that we do shape are ones that allow us to compete fairly .
we will increase earth-based observation to improve our understanding of our climate and our world -- science that will garner tangible benefits , helping us to protect our environment for future generations . and we will extend the life of the international space station likely by more than five years , while actually using it for its intended purpose : conducting advanced research that can help improve the daily lives of people here on earth , as well as testing and improving upon our capabilities in space . this includes technologies like more efficient life support systems that will help reduce the cost of future missions . and in order to reach the space station , we will work with a growing array of private companies competing to make getting to space easier and more affordable .
there is , of course , another responsibility we have to our children . and that is the responsibility to ensure that we do not pass on to them a debt they can not pay . with the deficit we inherited , the cost of the crisis we face , and the long-term challenges we must meet , it has never been more important to ensure that as our economy recovers , we do what it takes to bring this deficit down .
this year , all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care . and this year , young adults will be able to stay on their parents ’ policies until they ’ re 26 years old . that happens this year .
now , the good news is we ’ ve got new educational technologies that are transforming how our children learn . you 've got innovative websites and apps and tablets , digital textbooks and tutors . students are getting lessons tailored to their unique learning needs . we want to encourage that information . and it also facilitates teachers and parents tracking student progress and grades in real-time . and all this is part of what our connected initiative is about -— connecting 99 percent of american students to high-speed internet so that we ’ re empowering students , teachers , and parents , and giving them access to worlds they may never have had access to before .
reverend wheeler mentioned the inauguration , last year 's election . you know , on the heels of that victory over a year ago , there were some who suggested that somehow we had entered into a post-racial america , all those problems would be solved . there were those who argued that because i had spoke of a need for unity in this country that our nation was somehow entering into a period of post-partisanship . that didn ’ t work out so well . there was a hope shared by many that life would be better from the moment that i swore that oath .
for generations , the united states of america has played a unique role as an anchor of global security and as an advocate for human freedom . mindful of the risks and costs of military action , we are naturally reluctant to use force to solve the world ’ s many challenges . but when our interests and values are at stake , we have a responsibility to act . that ’ s what happened in libya over the course of these last six weeks .
in sum , the u.s. government had the information -- scattered throughout the system -- to potentially uncover this plot and disrupt the attack . rather than a failure to collect or share intelligence , this was a failure to connect and understand the intelligence that we already had .
and soon you will join the fleet . you ’ ll lead marines . and just as you ’ ve changed over the past four years , so , too , have the challenges facing our military . before you arrived here , our nation was engaged in two wars , al qaeda ’ s leadership was entrenched in their safe havens , many of our alliances were strained , and our nation ’ s standing in the world had suffered . and over the past four years , we ’ ve strengthened our alliances and restored america ’ s image in the world .
let us leave behind the legacy of both colonization and communism , the tyranny of drug cartels , dictators and sham elections . a future of greater peace , security and democratic development is possible if we work together -- not to maintain power , not to secure vested interest , but instead to advance the dreams of our citizens
so that has kept us busy , but it has not stopped the process of looking more broadly about how do we get a smarter immigration system in place while we ’ re waiting for congress to act . and it continues to be my belief that if i can ’ t see congressional action , that i need to do at least what i can in order to make the system work better .
we ca n't disguise hostility towards any religion behind the pretence of liberalism . in fact , faith should bring us together . and that 's why we 're forging service projects in america to bring together christians , muslims , and jews . that 's why we welcome efforts like saudi arabian king abdullah 's interfaith dialogue and turkey 's leadership in the alliance of civilizations . around the world , we can turn dialogue into interfaith service , so bridges between peoples lead to action -- whether it is combating malaria in africa , or providing relief after a natural disaster .
this is about what reform would mean for all those men and women i ’ ve met over the last few years who ’ ve been brave enough to share their stories . when we started our push for reform last year , i talked to a young mother in wisconsin named laura klitzka . she has two young children . she thought she had beaten her breast cancer but then later discovered it had spread to her bones . she and her husband were working and had insurance , but their medical bills still landed them in debt . and now she spends time worrying about that debt when all she wants to do is spend time with her children and focus on getting well .
those parents supporting kids -- that ’ s the single most important thing . unconditional love for your child -- that makes a difference . if a child grows up with parents who have work , and have some education , and can be role models , and can teach integrity and responsibility , and discipline and delayed gratification -- all those things give a child the kind of foundation that allows them to say , my future , i can make it what i want . and we ’ ve got to make sure that every child has that , and in some cases , we may have to fill the gap and the void if children don ’ t have that .
but above all , i will never forget who this victory truly belongs to . it belongs to you . it belongs to you . i was never the likeliest candidate for this office . we did n't start with much money or many endorsements .
if just a few women were willing to do what rosa parks had been willing to do , maybe the cracks in those walls would start to show . if teenagers took rides from north to south , maybe a few bricks would come loose .
and , yes , that ’ s why we stand up for civil society -- for journalists and ngos , and community organizers and activists -- who give people a voice . and that ’ s why we support societies that empower women -- because no country will reach its potential unless it draws on the talents of our wives and our mothers , and our sisters and our daughters
and when i announced our strategy against isil in september , i said that we are strongest as a nation when the president and congress work together . today , my administration submitted a draft resolution to congress to authorize the use of force against isil . i want to be very clear about what it does and what it does not do .
for through their own lives -- and through you , the loved ones that they left behind -- the men and women who lost their lives eight years ago today leave a legacy that still shines brightly in the darkness , and that calls on all of us to be strong and firm and united . that is our calling today and in all the septembers still to come .
in our country -- in our country , i have found that this cooperation happens not because we agree on everything , but because , behind all the false labels and false divisions and categories that define us , beyond all the petty bickering and point-scoring in washington , americans are a decent , generous , compassionate people , united by common challenges and common hopes .
ending this war is not only in iraq ’ s interest -- it ’ s in our own . the united states has paid a huge price to put the future of iraq in the hands of its people . we have sent our young men and women to make enormous sacrifices in iraq , and spent vast resources abroad at a time of tight budgets at home . we ’ ve persevered because of a belief we share with the iraqi people -- a belief that out of the ashes of war , a new beginning could be born in this cradle of civilization . through this remarkable chapter in the history of the united states and iraq , we have met our responsibility . now , it ’ s time to turn the page .
now , for many years , credit cards and home equity loans papered over this harsh reality . but in 2008 , the house of cards collapsed . we all know the story by now : mortgages sold to people who couldn ’ t afford them , or even sometimes understand them . banks and investors allowed to keep packaging the risk and selling it off . huge bets -- and huge bonuses -- made with other people ’ s money on the line . regulators who were supposed to warn us about the dangers of all this , but looked the other way or didn ’ t have the authority to look at all .
this is the poland we celebrate today . the free and democratic poland that your forebears and some who are here today dreamed of and fought for and , in some cases , died for . the growing and secure poland that you -- particularly the young people who are here today -- have enjoyed for your entire lives .
and that ’ s exactly how our intelligence community is supposed to work , using every capability -- human , technical -- collecting , analyzing , sharing , integrating intelligence , and then acting on it .
it ’ s our job as a nation to advocate on behalf of the america that we hope for -- to make decisions that will benefit the next generation -- even if it ’ s not always popular ; even if we can ’ t always see those benefits in the short-term . we make decisions like this on behalf of our own children every single day . and while it ’ s harder to do with an entire country as large and diverse as ours , it ’ s no less important .
odds are that the salahis are here . there have n't been people that were more unwelcome at a party since charlie crist . unfortunately , john mccain could n't make it . recently he claimed that he had never identified himself as a maverick . and we all know what happens in arizona when you do n't have id . adios , amigos .
i do n't expect every nation to agree with the decision we have made . privately we 've heard many expressions of support from our friends . but i will ask those who care about the writ of the international community to stand publicly behind our action .
the president has said he will continue down the road towards more troops and more of the same failed policies . the president sought and won authorization from congress to wage this war from the start . but he is now dismissing and ignoring the will of the american people , that is tired of years of watching the human and financial tolls mount .
we ’ re partnering with countries across the region to develop clean , more affordable and reliable energy that helps nations to combat the urgent threat of climate change , as president rousseff already noted . our 100,000 strong in the americas initiative is working to bring 100,000 students from latin america to the united states and 100,000 students from the united states to latin america . the new initiatives that i announced in jamaica will help empower a new generation of young people across the americas with the skills and job training that they need to compete in the global economy .
and we still believe , in the words of the man who called for a new nationalism all those years ago , “ the fundamental rule of our national life , ” he said , “ the rule which underlies all others -- is that , on the whole , and in the long run , we shall go up or down together. ” and i believe america is on the way up
that ’ s what you do . at your best that 's what journalism is . that ’ s the principle that you uphold . it is always important , but it ’ s especially important in times of challenge , like the moment that america and the world is facing now .
now , today , five years after the start of that great recession , america has fought its way back . we fought our way back . together , we saved the auto industry ; took on a broken health care system . we invested in new american technologies to reverse our addiction to foreign oil . we doubled wind and solar power . together , we put in place tough new rules on the big banks , and protections to crack down on the worst practices of mortgage lenders and credit card companies . we changed a tax code too skewed in favor of the wealthiest at the expense of working families -- so we changed that , and we locked in tax cuts for 98 percent of americans , and we asked those at the top to pay a little bit more .
tim ’ s extensive international experience makes him uniquely suited to do that work growing up partly in africa and having lived and worked throughout asia , having served as undersecretary of the treasury for international affairs , one of the many roles in the international arena , and having studied both chinese and japanese , tim understands the language of today ’ s international markets in more ways than one .
it is time to marginalize those who -- even when not directly resorting to violence -- use hatred of america , or the west , or israel , as the central organizing principle of politics . for that only gives cover , and sometimes makes an excuse , for those who do resort to violence .
and the good people of boston who opened their homes to the victims of this attack and those shaken by it so if you want to know who we are , what america is , how we respond to evil -- that ’ s it . selflessly . compassionately . unafraid .
and so with our eyes on the horizon and our faith squarely placed in one another , let us keep striving ; let us keep struggling ; let us keep climbing toward that promised land of a nation and a world that is more fair , and more just , and more equal for every single child of god .
despite all that , thousands of people are signing up and saving money as we speak . many americans with a preexisting condition , like janice , are discovering that they can finally get health insurance like everybody else .
now , i don ’ t know how passing health care will play politically -- but i know it ’ s right . teddy roosevelt knew it was right . harry truman knew that it was right . ted kennedy knew it was right . and if you believe that it ’ s right , then you 've got to help us finish this fight . you 've got to stand with me just like you did three years ago and make some phone calls and knock on some doors , talk to your parents , talk to your friends . do not quit , do not give up , we keep on going . we are going to get this done . we are going to make history . we are going to fix health care in america with your help .
and , frankly , up until about a couple of days ago , if you looked at it , the republicans in the house and speaker boehner i think were in a position to say , we 've gotten a fair deal . the fact that they have n't taken it yet is puzzling and i think a question that you 're going to have to address to them .
but i will not negotiate around the debt ceiling . we 're not going to do that again . q sir , may i ask a question about newtown , please ? the president : yes , i 've got david jackson .
the american people don ’ t expect government to solve every problem . they don ’ t expect those of us in this chamber to agree on every issue . but they do expect us to put the nation ’ s interests before party . they do expect us to forge reasonable compromise where we can . for they know that america moves forward only when we do so together , and that the responsibility of improving this union remains the task of us all .
we struck regime forces approaching benghazi to save that city and the people within it . we hit qaddafi ’ s troops in neighboring ajdabiya , allowing the opposition to drive them out . we hit qaddafi ’ s air defenses , which paved the way for a no-fly zone . we targeted tanks and military assets that had been choking off towns and cities , and we cut off much of their source of supply . and tonight , i can report that we have stopped qaddafi ’ s deadly advance .
and it seems like everyone has one of those stories - the ones that often start with `` you would n't believe who called me today . ted kennedy was the father who looked after not only his own three children , but john 's and bobby 's as well . he took them camping and taught them to sail . he laughed and danced with them at birthdays and weddings ; cried and mourned with them through hardship and tragedy ; and passed on that same sense of service and selflessness that his parents had instilled in him . shortly after ted walked caroline down the aisle and gave her away at the altar , he received a note from jackie that read , `` on you the carefree youngest brother fell a burden a hero would have begged to be spared . we are all going to make it because you were always there with your love . ''
more companies like united airlines won ’ t be able to provide pensions for their employees . and those maytag workers will be joined in the unemployment line by any worker whose skills can be bought and sold on the global market .
and that is why my administration has consistently rejected any efforts to short-cut negotiations or impose an agreement on the parties as rosy noted , last year , i stood before you and pledged that , `` the united states will stand up against efforts to single israel out at the united nations . '' as you know , that pledge has been kept . last september , i stood before the united nations general assembly and reaffirmed that any lasting peace must acknowledge the fundamental legitimacy of israel and its security concerns . i said that america ’ s commitment to israel ’ s security is unshakeable , our friendship with israel is enduring , and that israel must be recognized . no american president has made such a clear statement about our support for israel at the united nations at such a difficult time . people usually give those speeches before audiences like this one -- not before the general assembly .
let us broaden our coalition , building a confederation not of liberals or conservatives , not of red states or blue states , but of all americans who are hurting today , and searching for a better tomorrow .
that ’ s what we ’ re doing in the sahel , where the nations of west africa have stepped forward to keep the peace as mali now begins to rebuild . that ’ s what we ’ re doing in central africa , where a coalition of countries is closing the space where the lord ’ s resistance army can operate .
already , the affordable care act is helping to slow the growth of health care costs . and the reforms i ’ m proposing go even further . we ’ ll reduce taxpayer subsidies to prescription drug companies and ask more from the wealthiest seniors . we ’ ll bring down costs by changing the way our government pays for medicare , because our medical bills shouldn ’ t be based on the number of tests ordered or days spent in the hospital ; they should be based on the quality of care that our seniors receive . and i am open to additional reforms from both parties , so long as they don ’ t violate the guarantee of a secure retirement . our government shouldn ’ t make promises we can not keep -- but we must keep the promises we ’ ve already made .
and we ’ ll continue to insist to pakistan 's leaders that terrorist safe havens within their borders are unacceptable , and that terrorists behind the mumbai attacks must be brought to justice . we must also recognize that all of us have an interest in both an afghanistan and a pakistan that is stable and prosperous and democratic -- and india has an interest in that , as well .
now , i will accept that intelligence , by its nature , is imperfect , but it is increasingly clear that intelligence was not fully analyzed or fully leveraged . that 's not acceptable , and i will not tolerate it . time and again , we 've learned that quickly piecing together information and taking swift action is critical to staying one step ahead of a nimble adversary .
and then america happened . a place where destiny was not a destination , but a journey to be shared and shaped and remade by people who had the gall , the temerity to believe that , against all odds , they could form “ a more perfect union ” on this new frontier .
so as india builds new community colleges , we 'll link you with our own , so more young people graduate with the skills and training to succeed . we 'll increase collaborations between our colleges and universities , and help create the next india institute of technology . we 'll encourage young entrepreneurs who want to start a business . and we 'll increase exchanges , because i want more american students coming to india , and more indian students coming to america . and that way , we can learn from each other and we can go further . because one other thing we have in common indians and americans are some of the hardest working people on earth .
as a result of the actions russia has already taken , and the major sanctions we ’ ve imposed with our european and international partners , russia is already more isolated than at any time since the end of the cold war . capital is fleeing . investors are increasingly staying out . its economy is in decline . and this ongoing russian incursion into ukraine will only bring more costs and consequences for russia .
they ’ re right . the rules have changed . in a single generation , revolutions in technology have transformed the way we live , work and do business . steel mills that once needed 1,000 workers can now do the same work with 100. today , just about any company can set up shop , hire workers , and sell their products wherever there ’ s an internet connection .
thank you . may god bless you . and may god bless the united states of america . all right everybody , please have a seat . my fellow americans . mahalo ! it is wonderful to be here at the white house correspondents ’ dinner . what a week . as some of you heard , the state of hawaii released my official long-form birth certificate .
meus amigos , that day has finally come . and this is a country of the future no more . the people of brazil should know that the future has arrived . it is here now . and it ’ s time to seize it .
congressman sandy levin , also working hard on your behalf each and every day , but is not here today . i want to go ahead and acknowledge the new mayor , since he 's the new mayor -- mayor dave bing , great ball player .
we ’ ve added mobile clinics for our rural veterans ; more tailored care for our women veterans ; unprecedented support for veterans with traumatic brain injury . all tolled , we ’ ve made va health care available to nearly 800,000 veterans who didn ’ t have it before . and we ’ re now supporting caregivers and families with the skills and the stipends to help care for the veterans that they love .
there will be times , though , when our safety is not directly threatened , but our interests and our values are . sometimes , the course of history poses challenges that threaten our common humanity and our common security -- responding to natural disasters , for example ; or preventing genocide and keeping the peace ; ensuring regional security , and maintaining the flow of commerce . these may not be america ’ s problems alone , but they are important to us . they ’ re problems worth solving . and in these circumstances , we know that the united states , as the world ’ s most powerful nation , will often be called upon to help .
that is the example of brazil . that is the example of brazil . brazil -- a country that shows that a dictatorship can become a thriving democracy . brazil -- a country that shows democracy delivers both freedom and opportunity to its people . brazil -- a country that shows how a call for change that starts in the streets can transform a city , transform a country , transform a world .
i ’ m also issuing a new goal for america : let ’ s cut in half the energy wasted by our homes and businesses over the next 20 years . we 'll work with the states to do it . those states with the best ideas to create jobs and lower energy bills by constructing more efficient buildings will receive federal support to help make that happen .
i believe that in the americas today , there are no senior partners and there are no junior partners , there are only equal partners . of course , equal partnerships , in turn , demands a sense of shared responsibility . we have obligations to each other . and today , the united states is working with the nations of this hemisphere to meet our responsibilities in several key areas .
one delegate to the san francisco conference that led to the creation of the united nations put it well : “ many people , ” she said , “ have talked as if all that has to be done to get peace was to say loudly and frequently that we loved peace and we hated war . now we have learned that no matter how much we love peace and hate war , we can not avoid having war brought upon us if there are convulsions in other parts of the world . ”
ultimately , only diplomacy can bring about a durable solution to the challenge posed by iran ’ s nuclear program . as president and commander-in-chief , i will do what is necessary to prevent iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon . but i have a profound responsibility to try to resolve our differences peacefully , rather than rush towards conflict . today , we have a real opportunity to achieve a comprehensive , peaceful settlement , and i believe we must test it .
audience member : more talent ! president obama : that , too . i ’ m also going to use the power of my office over the next few months to highlight a topic that ’ s straining the budgets of just about every american family -- and that ’ s the soaring cost of higher education . everybody is touched by this , including your president , who had a whole bunch of loans he had to pay off .
and yet there is a pervasive unease in our world -- a sense that the very forces that have brought us together have created new dangers and made it difficult for any single nation to insulate itself from global forces . as we gather here , an outbreak of ebola overwhelms public health systems in west africa and threatens to move rapidly across borders . russian aggression in europe recalls the days when large nations trampled small ones in pursuit of territorial ambition . the brutality of terrorists in syria and iraq forces us to look into the heart of darkness .
so when i took office , i decided we could rethink the way we do trade in a way that actually works for working americans . i didn ’ t think this was the right thing to do just for companies . if i didn ’ t think this was the right thing to do for working families , i would not be fighting for it . if any agreement undercuts working families , i won ’ t sign it . i ran for office to expand opportunity for everybody -- the all-american idea that no matter who you are , or where you come from , or how you started out , or who you love , in america you can make it if you try .
and if we lift our eyes , as president kennedy called us to do , then we ’ ll recognize that our work is not yet done . for we are not only citizens of america or germany -- we are also citizens of the world . and our fates and fortunes are linked like never before .
audience member : -- prisoners already . release them today . president obama : where appropriate , we will bring terrorists to justice in our courts and our military justice system . and we will insist that judicial review be available for every detainee .
yet unfortunately , there is sometimes a sense that old assumptions must prevail , old ways of thinking ; a conception of power that is rooted in the past rather than in the future . there is the 20th century view that the united states and russia are destined to be antagonists , and that a strong russia or a strong america can only assert themselves in opposition to one another . and there is a 19th century view that we are destined to vie for spheres of influence , and that great powers must forge competing blocs to balance one another .
and understand , this is n't just an issue for me . i 'm standing here as president because of the education that i received . as chris said , my father left my family when i was two years old . and i was raised by a single mom , and sometimes she struggled to provide for me and my sister . but my mother , my grandparents , they pushed me to excel . they refused to let me make excuses . and they kept pushing me , especially on those rare occasions where i 'd slack off or get into trouble . they were n't that rare , actually . i 'm sure nobody here has done anything like that .
as president , i will pursue a tough , smart and principled national security strategy -- one that recognizes that we have interests not just in baghdad , but in kandahar and karachi , in tokyo and london , in beijing and berlin . i will focus this strategy on five goals essential to making america safer : ending the war in iraq responsibly ; finishing the fight against al qaida and the taliban ; securing all nuclear weapons and materials from terrorists and rogue states ; achieving true energy security ; and rebuilding our alliances to meet the challenges of the 21st century .
as for our auto industry , everyone recognizes that years of bad decision-making and a global recession have pushed our automakers to the brink . we should not , and will not , protect them from their own bad practices . but we are committed to the goal of a re-tooled , re-imagined auto industry that can compete and win . millions of jobs depend on it . scores of communities depend on it . and i believe the nation that invented the automobile can not walk away from it .
we must remember that ideology is not a foreign policy . we must not embark on a war based on untested theories , political agendas , or wishful thinking that has basis -- that has little basis in fact or reality . we must focus our efforts on the threats we know exist , and we must evaluate those threats with sound intelligence that is never manipulated for political reasons .
mr. president , for your service , for your courage , for your sense of humor , and , most of all , for your love of country : thank you very much . from all the citizens of the united states of america , god bless you .
and we ’ re going to make -- we ’ re going to spare no effort to make sure that your families have the support that they deserve as well . that doesn ’ t just matter to me . it ’ s also a top priority for michelle -- to make sure that americans understand the sacrifices that your families are making . as she likes to say , 100 percent of americans need to be right -- they are supporting you and your families -- 100 percent . only 1 percent are fighting these wars , but 100 percent of us have to be behind you and your families .
i think of the new yorkers who filled times square the day after an attempted car bomb as if nothing had happened . i think of the proud pakistani parents who , after their daughter was invited to the white house , wrote to us , “ we have raised an american muslim daughter to dream big and never give up because it does pay off . ”
this center is one of the critical lines of america ’ s cyber defenses . these men and women work around the clock , 24/7 , monitoring threats , issuing warnings , sharing information with the private sector , and keeping americans safe . so , as a nation , we owe them thanks , and as a nation , we are making progress . we ’ re more prepared to defend against cyber attacks . but every day , our adversaries are getting more sophisticated and more determined , and more plentiful . so every day , we ’ ve got to keep upping our game at the same time . we ’ ve got to stay ahead of those who are trying to do us harm .
i want to acknowledge one of the great heroes of american history and american life , somebody who captures the essence of decency and courage , somebody who i have admired all my life and were it not for him , i 'm not sure i 'd be here today , congressman john lewis .
if you ’ re a small business owner and you weren ’ t aware of some of the programs that have been put in place or haven ’ t participated , then , again , the white house website will connect you to the resources you need . and we are making sure that all the parish presidents know , and folks like the mayor , other local officials are going to be aware of how they can get immediate help from us .
you know , it has been about six months now since you sent me to washington as your united states senator . i recognize that not all of you voted for me , so for those of you muttering under your breath `` i didn ’ t send you anywhere , '' that 's ok too . maybe we ’ ll hold -- what do you call it ? -- a little pumphandle after the ceremony . change your mind for the next time .
others will say that we shouldn ’ t even talk about cutting spending until the economy is fully recovered . these are mostly folks in my party . i ’ m sympathetic to this view -- which is one of the reasons i supported the payroll tax cuts we passed in december . it ’ s also why we have to use a scalpel and not a machete to reduce the deficit , so that we can keep making the investments that create jobs . but doing nothing on the deficit is just not an option . our debt has grown so large that we could do real damage to the economy if we don ’ t begin a process now to get our fiscal house in order .
the syrian government took a first step by giving an accounting of its stockpiles . now there must be a strong security council resolution to verify that the assad regime is keeping its commitments , and there must be consequences if they fail to do so . if we can not agree even on this , then it will show that the united nations is incapable of enforcing the most basic of international laws . on the other hand , if we succeed , it will send a powerful message that the use of chemical weapons has no place in the 21st century , and that this body means what it says .
to secretary panetta , general dempsey , to all the commanders who are here and did so much under such extraordinary circumstances to arrive at an outcome in which the iraqi people have an opportunity to chart their own destiny , thank you for the great work that you 've done .
and most of all , we ’ re going after the traffickers . new anti-trafficking teams are dismantling their networks . last year , we charged a record number of these predators with human trafficking . we ’ re putting them where they belong -- behind bars .
finally , i am convinced that general james jones is uniquely suited to be a strong and skilled national security advisor . generations of joneses have served heroically on the battlefield -- from the beaches of tarawa in world war ii , to foxtrot ridge in vietnam .
so most of you will never get headlines for the work that you do . you won ’ t get ticker-tape parades . but as you go about your work with incredible diligence and dedication every single day , i hope all of you understand how important it is , how grateful i am , and that you have the thanks of a grateful nation .
now , speaking of presidents and their legacies , i want to acknowledge a wonderful friend , steven spielberg , and daniel day-lewis , who are here tonight . we had a screening of their most recent film , lincoln , which was an extraordinary film . i am a little nervous , though , about steven 's next project . i saw a behind-the-scenes look on hbo -- well , let 's just check it out . roll the tape .
now , this last point is critical , because much of the criticism about drone strikes -- both here at home and abroad -- understandably centers on reports of civilian casualties . there ’ s a wide gap between u.s. assessments of such casualties and nongovernmental reports . nevertheless , it is a hard fact that u.s. strikes have resulted in civilian casualties , a risk that exists in every war . and for the families of those civilians , no words or legal construct can justify their loss . for me , and those in my chain of command , those deaths will haunt us as long as we live , just as we are haunted by the civilian casualties that have occurred throughout conventional fighting in afghanistan and iraq .
we ’ re giving unprecedented support to our wounded warriors -- especially those with traumatic brain injury . and thanks to the veterans and caregivers legislation i signed into law , we ’ ve started training caregivers so that they can receive the skills and the stipends that they need to care for their loved ones .
in short , we must find a way to live together as one human family . and -- and it 's this last challenge that i 'd like to talk about today , despite the fact that father john stole all my best lines . for the major threats we face in the 21st century -- whether it 's global recession or violent extremism , the spread of nuclear weapons or pandemic disease -- these things do not discriminate . they do not recognize borders . they do not see color . they do not target specific ethnic groups . moreover , no one person , or religion , or nation can meet these challenges alone . our very survival has never required greater cooperation and greater understanding among all people from all places than at this moment in history .
and i can promise you this : the world will be watching what decisions you make . the world will be watching what you do . because one of the wonderful things that ’ s happening is , where people used to only see suffering and conflict in africa , suddenly , now they 're seeing opportunity for resources , for investment , for partnership , for influence .
so there should n't be an argument there . and we want to make sure that we 're helping providers computerize so that we can get this system up and running . the second step that we can all agree on is to invest more in preventive care so we can avoid illness and disease in the first place . that starts with each of us taking more responsibility for our health and for the health of our children . it means quitting smoking . it means going in for that mammogram or colon cancer screening . it means going for a run or hitting the gym , and raising our children to step away from the video games and spend more time playing outside .
the rule of law and equal administration of justice has busted monopolies , shut down political machines that were corrupt , ended abuses of power . independent media have exposed corruption at all levels of business and government .
i know what this reform will mean for people like leslie banks , a single mom i met in pennsylvania . she ’ s trying to put her daughter through college , just like probably some of your moms and dads are trying to put you through college . and her insurance company just sent her a letter saying they plan to double her premium this year -– have it go up 100 percent . and she can ’ t afford it . so now she ’ s trying to figure out , am i going to keep my insurance or am i going to keep my daughter in college ? leslie banks needs us to pass this reform bill .
i ’ ve , therefore , authorized targeted airstrikes , if necessary , to help forces in iraq as they fight to break the siege of mount sinjar and protect the civilians trapped there . already , american aircraft have begun conducting humanitarian airdrops of food and water to help these desperate men , women and children survive . earlier this week , one iraqi in the area cried to the world , `` there is no one coming to help . '' well today , america is coming to help . we ’ re also consulting with other countries -- and the united nations -- who have called for action to address this humanitarian crisis .
it is an extraordinary honor to be here . thank you , commander barrera , for your kind introduction and for your lifetime of service , in the marines in vietnam -- but also as a tireless advocate for your fellow disabled veterans . we are grateful to you . thank you for everything that you 've done .
now , i know , particularly this week , that for many in this hall , there 's one issue that stands as a test for these principles and a test for american foreign policy , and that is the conflict between the israelis and the palestinians .
if we want a robust , growing economy , we need a robust , growing manufacturing sector . that ’ s why we told the auto industry two years ago that if they were willing to adapt , we ’ d stand by them . today , they ’ re profitable , they ’ re creating jobs , and they ’ re repaying taxpayers ahead of schedule .
that is what we 'll help them do later this year -- that what we 're going to help them do later this year when we finally make no child left behind live up to its name by ensuring not only that teachers and principals get the funding that they need , but that the money is tied to results . and arne duncan will also back up this commitment to higher standards with a fund to invest in innovation in our school districts .
nobody wants to punish success in america . what ’ s great about this country is our belief that anyone can make it and everybody should be able to try -– the idea that any one of us can open a business or have an idea and make us millionaires or billionaires . this is the land of opportunity . that ’ s great . all i ’ m saying is that those who have done well , including me , should pay our fair share in taxes to contribute to the nation that made our success possible . we shouldn ’ t get a better deal than ordinary families get . and i think most wealthy americans would agree if they knew this would help us grow the economy and deal with the debt that threatens our future .
let ’ s keep taking care of our extraordinary military families . for the first time ever , we ’ ve made military families and veterans a top priority not just at dod , not just at the va , but across the government . as richard mentioned , this has been a mission for my wife , michelle , and vice president joe biden ’ s wife , dr. jill biden . today , more people across america in every segment of society are joining forces to give our military families the respect and the support that they deserve .
this next provision is called the jersey shore-up . it reads : `` the following individuals shall be excluded from the indoor tanning tax within this bill . '' snooki , j-woww , the situation , and house minority leader john boehner .
through talent and hard work , israelis have put this small country at the forefront of the global economy . israelis understand the value of education and have produced 10 nobel laureates.israelis understand the power of invention , and your universities educate engineers and inventors . and that spirit has led to economic growth and human progress -- solar power and electric cars , bandages and prosthetic limbs that save lives , stem cell research and new drugs that treat disease , cell phones and computer technology that changed the way people around the world live .
thanks a lot , guys . good afternoon , everybody . this sound system is really powerful . today , i ’ d like to update the american people on two issues that i ’ ve been monitoring closely these last several days .
for you , coming home was the beginning of another battle -- the battle to recover . you fought to stand again and to walk again and to work again . you fought for each other and for the benefits and treatment you had earned . you became leaders in our communities , in our companies , and our country -- including a former vietnam vet and senator , max cleland , who reminded us that america 's disabled veterans are `` strong at the broken places . ''
after nearly six years as president , i believe that this promise can help light the world . because i have seen a longing for positive change -- for peace and for freedom and for opportunity and for the end to bigotry -- in the eyes of young people who i ’ ve met around the globe .
and i have to say -- please give tolu another round of applause . it takes a lot of courage to do what tolu did -- to step out of the shadows , to share her story , and to hope that , despite the risks , she could make a difference .
we have to do better . america is the nation that built the transcontinental railroad , brought electricity to rural communities , constructed the interstate highway system . the jobs created by these projects didn ’ t just come from laying down track or pavement . they came from businesses that opened near a town ’ s new train station or the new off-ramp .
and we hear such voices today . but over the long haul the american people have resisted that temptation . and though we 've made our share of mistakes , required some course corrections , ultimately we have held fast to the principles that have been the source of our strength and a beacon to the world
i do so recognizing that change can not happen overnight . i know there 's been a lot of publicity about this speech , but no single speech can eradicate years of mistrust , nor can i answer in the time that i have this afternoon all the complex questions that brought us to this point .
the men and women who gathered there could 've heard many things . they could 've heard words of anger and discord . they could 've been told to succumb to the fear and frustrations of so many dreams deferred . but what the people heard instead -- people of every creed and color , from every walk of life -- is that , in america , our destiny is inextricably linked , that together our dreams can be one . `` we can not walk alone , '' the preacher cried . `` and as we walk , we must make the pledge that we shall always march ahead . we can not turn back . ''
these mitigation actions are ambitious , and we are taking them not simply to meet global responsibilities . we are convinced , as some of you may be convinced , that changing the way we produce and use energy is essential to america 's economic future -- that it will create millions of new jobs , power new industries , keep us competitive , and spark new innovation . we 're convinced , for our own self-interest , that the way we use energy , changing it to a more efficient fashion , is essential to our national security , because it helps to reduce our dependence on foreign oil , and helps us deal with some of the dangers posed by climate change .
the state department is a fitting venue to mark a new chapter in american diplomacy . for six months , we have witnessed an extraordinary change taking place in the middle east and north africa . square by square , town by town , country by country , the people have risen up to demand their basic human rights . two leaders have stepped aside . more may follow . and though these countries may be a great distance from our shores , we know that our own future is bound to this region by the forces of economics and security , by history and by faith .
when i came to my first summit of the americas six years ago , i promised to begin a new chapter of engagement in this region . i believed that our nations had to break free from the old arguments , the old grievances that had too often trapped us in the past ; that we had a shared responsibility to look to the future and to think and act in fresh ways . i pledged to build a new era of cooperation between our countries , as equal partners , based on mutual interest and mutual respect . and i said that this new approach would be sustained throughout my presidency ; it has , including during this past year . i ’ ve met that commitment .
of course , none of these reforms will even happen if we do n't also reform how we work with one another . now , i 'm not naïve . i never thought that the mere fact of my election would usher in peace and harmony , and some post-partisan era . i knew that both parties have fed divisions that are deeply entrenched . and on some issues , there are simply philosophical differences that will always cause us to part ways . these disagreements , about the role of government in our lives , about our national priorities and our national security , they 've been taking place for over 200 years . they 're the very essence of our democracy .
but in return , we need to change our tax code so that people like me , and an awful lot of members of congress , pay our fair share of taxes . tax reform should follow the buffett rule . if you make more than 1 million dollars a year , you should not pay less than 30 percent in taxes . and my republican friend tom coburn is right : washington should stop subsidizing millionaires . in fact , if you ’ re earning a million dollars a year , you shouldn ’ t get special tax subsidies or deductions . on the other hand , if you make under 250,000 dollars a year , like 98 percent of american families , your taxes shouldn ’ t go up . you ’ re the ones struggling with rising costs and stagnant wages . you ’ re the ones who need relief .
instead of politicians doling out money behind a veil of secrecy , decisions about where we invest will be made transparently , and informed by independent experts wherever possible . every american will be able to hold washington accountable for these decisions by going online to see how and where their taxpayer dollars are being spent . and as i announced yesterday , we will launch an unprecedented effort to eliminate unwise and unnecessary spending that has never been more unaffordable for our nation and our children 's future than it is right now .
as we look beyond the wars in iraq and afghanistan -- and the end of long-term nation-building with large military footprints -- we 'll be able to ensure our security with smaller conventional ground forces . we 'll continue to get rid of outdated cold war-era systems so that we can invest in the capabilities that we need for the future , including intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance , counterterrorism , countering weapons of mass destruction and the ability to operate in environments where adversaries try to deny us access .
these are the obligations we have to each other -- our forces , our veterans , our citizens . these are the responsibilities we must fulfill . not just when it ’ s easy , not just when we ’ re flush with cash , not just when it ’ s convenient , but always .
and we ’ re accelerating the transition to a clean energy economy by significantly raising the fuel-efficiency standards of cars and trucks , and by doubling our use of renewable energies like wind and solar power -- steps that have the potential to create whole new industries and hundreds of thousands of new jobs in america .
and by the way , not only does it reduce the deficit -- we pay for it responsibly in ways that the other side of the aisle that talks a lot about fiscal responsibility but doesn ’ t seem to be able to walk the walk can ’ t claim when it comes to their prescription drug bill . we are actually doing it . this is paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit -- it will reduce the deficit .
it ’ s been this way for decades . and for decades , we haven ’ t done much about it . when i took office , i committed to fixing this broken immigration system . and i began by doing what i could to secure our borders . today , we have more agents and technology deployed to secure our southern border than at any time in our history . and over the past six years , illegal border crossings have been cut by more than half . although this summer , there was a brief spike in unaccompanied children being apprehended at our border , the number of such children is now actually lower than it ’ s been in nearly two years . overall , the number of people trying to cross our border illegally is at its lowest level since the 1970s . those are the facts .
i also made clear that the united states , and our friends and allies , are deeply concerned about the risks of further escalation and the loss of more innocent life . and that ’ s why we ’ ve indicated , although we support military efforts by the israelis to make sure that rockets are not being fired into their territory , we also have said that our understanding is the current military ground operations are designed to deal with the tunnels , and we are hopeful that israel will continue to approach this process in a way that minimizes civilian casualties and that all of us are working hard to return to the cease-fire that was reached in november of 2012 .
the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff is the principal military advisor to me and my national security team , including the secretary of defense . since taking office , i ’ ve been very grateful for the leadership of the current chairman , admiral mike mullen , and the vice chairman , general jim “ hoss ” cartwright . these two men have served our nation with distinction for decades , and i look forward to paying tribute to their lives of service in the months ahead .
last but not least , i want to recognize all the people who helped you to reach this milestone : the parents , the grandparents , the aunts , the uncles , the sisters , the brothers , the friends , the neighbors -- who have loved you and stood behind you every step of the way . congratulations , family .
and in gabby -- in gabby , we see a reflection of our public-spiritedness ; that desire to participate in that sometimes frustrating , sometimes contentious , but always necessary and never-ending process to form a more perfect union .
now , as a nation , we ’ ve long rejected such cruelty . just a few days ago , we marked the 150th anniversary of a document that i have hanging in the oval office -- the emancipation proclamation . with the advance of union forces , it brought a new day -- that `` all persons held as slaves '' would thenceforth be forever free . we wrote that promise into our constitution . we spent decades struggling to make it real . we joined with other nations , in the universal declaration of human rights , so that `` slavery and the slave trade shall be prohibited in all their forms . ''
i mean , let ’ s just think about the logic for a second . they ’ re thinking about voting for raising taxes at least on folks over a million , which they say they don ’ t want to do , but they ’ re going to reject spending cuts that they say they do want to do . that defies logic . there ’ s no explanation for that .
these achievements have created new laws that must be implemented , and a momentum that should be sustained . for democracies can not be static -- they must move forward . freedom of religion and expression lead to a strong and vibrant civil society that only strengthens the state , which is why steps like reopening halki seminary will send such an important signal inside turkey and beyond . an enduring commitment to the rule of law is the only way to achieve the security that comes from justice for all people . robust minority rights let societies benefit from the full measure of contributions from all citizens .
still , preventing such a catastrophe in the future will require further study and deeper reform . that ’ s why last friday , i also signed an executive order establishing the national commission on the bp deepwater horizon oil spill and offshore drilling . while there are a number of ongoing investigations , including an independent review by the national academy of engineering , the purpose of this commission is to consider both the root causes of the disaster and offer options on what safety and environmental precautions are necessary .
ask yourselves -- where would we be right now if the people who sat here before us decided not to build our highways , not to build our bridges , our dams , our airports ? what would this country be like if we had chosen not to spend money on public high schools , or research universities , or community colleges ? millions of returning heroes , including my grandfather , had the opportunity to go to school because of the g.i . bill . where would we be if they hadn ’ t had that chance ?
that 's why i 've charged secretary shinseki with building a 21st century va. and that includes one of the largest percentage increases to the va budget in the past 30 years . we are going to cut this deficit that we 've got , and i 've proposed a freeze on discretionary domestic spending . but what i have not frozen is the spending we need to keep our military strong , our country safe and our veterans secure . so we 're going to keep on making historic commitments to our veterans .
we saw it in the people so generous that when the red cross set up a shelter for folks who couldn ’ t go back to their homes , not that many people showed up , because most had already been offered a place to stay with their friends and family and neighbors .
second , they understood that as much as our government and our political parties had betrayed them in the past -- as much as our nation itself had betrayed its own ideals -- government , if aligned with the interests of its people , can be -- and must be -- a force for good .
we do n't think the government can solve all of our problems , but we do n't think the government is the source of all of our problems -- any more than our welfare recipients or corporations or unions or immigrants or gays or any other group we 're told to blame for our troubles -- because -- because america , we understand that this democracy is ours .
but he had that frontier optimism , and so he saw something more on the horizon . and he wrote , “ i speak of new cities and new people . the past is a bucket of ashes .
last thursday , i spent seven hours at a summit where democrats and republicans engaged in a public and very substantive discussion about health care . this meeting capped off a debate that began with a similar summit nearly one year ago . and since then , every idea has been put on the table . every argument has been made . everything there is to say about health care has been said -- and just about everybody has said it . so now is the time to make a decision about how to finally reform health care so that it works , not just for the insurance companies , but for america ’ s families and america ’ s businesses .
we believed we could reduce our dependence on foreign oil and protect our planet . and today , america is number one in oil and gas . america is number one in wind power . every three weeks , we bring online as much solar power as we did in all of 2008. and thanks to lower gas prices and higher fuel standards , the typical family this year should save about $ 750 at the pump .
before i begin , i just want to say that we are following today ’ s events in egypt very closely . and we ’ ll have more to say as this plays out . but what is absolutely clear is that we are witnessing history unfold .
these are not opinions to be debated ; these are facts to be dealt with now , make no mistake : we do not want to keep our troops in afghanistan . we see no military -- we seek no military bases there . it is agonizing for america to lose our young men and women . it is costly and politically difficult to continue this conflict . we would gladly bring every single one of our troops home if we could be confident that there were not violent extremists in afghanistan and now pakistan determined to kill as many americans as they possibly can . but that is not yet the case .
recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and tanks , but with the sturdy alliances and enduring convictions . they understood that our power alone can not protect us , nor does it entitle us to do as we please . instead , they knew that our power grows through its prudent use ; our security emanates from the justness of our cause , the force of our example , the tempering qualities of humility and restraint .
so the bottom line is this : the southern border is more secure today than at any time in the past 20 years . that doesn ’ t mean we don ’ t have more work to do .
i do not believe we can keep doing the same thing for over five decades and expect a different result . moreover , it does not serve america ’ s interests , or the cuban people , to try to push cuba toward collapse .
so , in our work , we have to make sure that abuses stop , are not repeated , that we do not stigmatize entire communities . nobody should be profiled or put under a cloud of suspicion simply because of their faith . engagement with communities can ’ t be a cover for surveillance . we can ’ t `` securitize '' our relationship with muslim americans -- dealing with them solely through the prism of law enforcement . because when we do , that only reinforces suspicions , makes it harder for us to build the trust that we need to work together .
now , for this , roosevelt was called a radical . he was called a socialist -- even a communist . but today , we are a richer nation and a stronger democracy because of what he fought for in his last campaign : an eight-hour work day and a minimum wage for women -- insurance for the unemployed and for the elderly , and those with disabilities ; political reform and a progressive income tax .
that ’ s how we ’ re going to bring about the change that we seek . that ’ s how dr. king led this country through the wilderness . he did it with words , words that he spoke not just to the children of slaves but the children of slave owners , words that inspired not just black but also white , not just christian but also jew and muslim and buddhists and atheists , not just the southerner but also the northerner .
and for the sake of our economy , our security , and the future of our planet , i will set a clear goal as president : in 10 years , we will finally end our dependence on oil from the middle east
president obama : well , let me make a couple of points . number one , i 've said before and i will repeat : we do not want iran having nuclear weapons . and it would be not only dangerous to us and our allies , but it would be destabilizing to the entire region , and could trigger a nuclear arms race that would make life much more dangerous for all of us . so our policy is iran can not have nuclear weapons . and i 'm leaving all options on the table to make sure that we meet that goal .
if you believe that the families of newtown and aurora and tucson and virginia tech and the thousands of americans who have been gunned down in the last four months deserve a vote , we all have to stand up .
it ’ s worth remembering , there was a time when steel was about as advanced as manufacturing got . but when the namesake of this university , andrew carnegie -- an immigrant , by the way -- discovered new ways to mass-produce steel cheaply , everything changed . just 20 years after founding his company , not only was it the largest , most profitable in the world , america had become the number one steelmaker in the world .
i also hear from many business leaders who want to hire in the united states but can ’ t find workers with the right skills . growing industries in science and technology have twice as many openings as we have workers who can do the job . think about that -- openings at a time when millions of americans are looking for work . it ’ s inexcusable . and we know how to fix it .
and if we have security arrangements that avoid conflict and dispute , then we ’ re able to place our attention on where we should be focused mr. carney : the next question comes from margaret talev of bloomberg .
good morning marines . good morning camp lejeune . good morning jacksonville . thank you for that outstanding welcome . i want to thank lieutenant general hejlik for hosting me here today . i also want to acknowledge all of our soldiers , sailors , airmen and marines serving in iraq and afghanistan . that includes the camp lejeune marines now serving with – or soon joining – the second marine expeditionary force in iraq ; those with special purpose marine air ground task force in afghanistan ; and those among the 8,000 marines who are preparing to deploy to afghanistan . we have you in our prayers . we pay tribute to your service . we thank you and your families for all that you do for america . and i want all of you to know that there is no higher honor or greater responsibility than serving as your commander-in-chief .
one last point about education . today , there are hundreds of thousands of students excelling in our schools who are not american citizens . some are the children of undocumented workers , who had nothing to do with the actions of their parents . they grew up as americans and pledge allegiance to our flag , and yet they live every day with the threat of deportation . others come here from abroad to study in our colleges and universities . but as soon as they obtain advanced degrees , we send them back home to compete against us . it makes no sense .
my point is this : as americans , we are strong and we are resilient . and when tragedy strikes , when we take a hit , we pull together , and we draw on what ’ s best in our character -- our optimism , our commitment to each other , our commitment to our values , our respect for one another . we stand up , and we rebuild , and we recover , and we emerge stronger than before . that ’ s who we are .
i recognize it will be hard to overcome decades of mistrust , but we will proceed with courage , rectitude , and resolve . there will be many issues to discuss between our two countries , and we are willing to move forward without preconditions on the basis of mutual respect . but it is clear to all concerned that when it comes to nuclear weapons , we have reached a decisive point . this is not simply about america 's interests . it 's about preventing a nuclear arms race in the middle east that could lead this region and the world down a hugely dangerous path .
and it seems like every time i 'm here i learn something . so , for those of you who are thinking about carnegie mellon , it 's a terrific place , and you guys are doing just great work .
for there is one final quality that i believe makes the united states and the united kingdom indispensable to this moment in history . and that is how we define ourselves as nations . unlike most countries in the world , we do not define citizenship based on race or ethnicity .
that 's why i 'd ask all the spouses and the partners and families to stand up and accept our gratitude for your remarkable service , especially because you look so good tonight . you taught us about sacrifice , a love of country so deep , so profound , you were willing to give your lives for it . and tonight we pay solemn tribute to all who did . we remember the first , on that first day of war : major jay thomas aubin , captain ryan anthony beaupre , corporal brian matthew kennedy , staff sergeant kendall damon waters-bey . and we remember the last , specialist david emanuel hickman , november 14 , 2011 .
what a glorious thing , dr. king might say . and what a solemn debt we owe . which leads us to ask , just how might we repay that debt ? first and foremost , we have to recognize that one day ’ s commemoration , no matter how special , is not enough . if selma taught us anything , it ’ s that our work is never done . the american experiment in self-government gives work and purpose to each generation .
four years ago , i stood before you and said that , `` israel ’ s security is sacrosanct . it is non-negotiable . '' that belief has guided my actions as president . the fact is , my administration ’ s commitment to israel ’ s security has been unprecedented .
now , to make room for these investments in education , in innovation , in infrastructure , government also has a responsibility to cut spending that we just ca n't afford . that 's why i 've promised to veto any bill that 's larded up with earmarks . that 's why i 've proposed that we freeze annual domestic spending for the next five years . understand what this means . this would reduce the deficit by more than $ 400 billion over the next decade , and bring this spending -- domestic discretionary spending -- down to the lowest share of our economy since eisenhower was president . that was a long time ago .
but let me tell you -- during those times it 's faith that keeps me calm . it 's faith that gives me peace . the same faith that leads a single mother to work two jobs to put a roof over her head when she has doubts .
in pakistan , we 've seen the government begin to take the fight to violent extremists within its borders , and major blows have been struck against al qaeda and its leadership -- because in this region and beyond , we will tolerate no safe haven for al qaeda and their extremist allies . we will disrupt , we will dismantle , and we will ultimately defeat al qaeda . and we will give our troops the resources and the equipment to get the job done and keep our country safe .
because of what they did , the doors of opportunity swung open not just for black folks , but for every american . women marched through those doors . latinos marched through those doors . asian americans , gay americans , americans with disabilities -- they all came through those doors . their endeavors gave the entire south the chance to rise again , not by reasserting the past , but by transcending the past .
and my proposal says that if you still can ’ t afford the insurance in this new marketplace , even though it 's going to provide better deals for people than they can get right now in the individual marketplace , then we 'll offer you tax credits to do so -- tax credits that add up to the largest middle-class tax cut for health care in history . after all , the wealthiest among us can already buy the best insurance there is , and the least well off are able to get coverage through medicaid . so it 's the middle class that gets squeezed , and that ’ s who we have to help .
it will be your choice as to whether we break our promise to seniors and the poor and the disabled and tell them to fend for themselves , or whether we keep strengthening our social safety net and our health care system
and that pledge i have n't broke . that commitment , that promise , continues to be -- continues to hold -- the promise that i would n't be perfect , number one , but also the promise that as long as i 've got the honor of having this office , i 'm just going to work as hard as i can to make things better for folks . and what that means specifically in this health care arena is we ca n't go back to the status quo .
now , this is n't to say that the african american community is naïve about the fact that african american young men are disproportionately involved in the criminal justice system ; that they ’ re disproportionately both victims and perpetrators of violence . it ’ s not to make excuses for that fact -- although black folks do interpret the reasons for that in a historical context . they understand that some of the violence that takes place in poor black neighborhoods around the country is born out of a very violent past in this country , and that the poverty and dysfunction that we see in those communities can be traced to a very difficult history .
this can not just be an american mission . al qaeda and its allies operate in nearly 100 countries . the united states can not steal every secret , penetrate every cell , act on every tip , or track down every terrorist – nor should we have to do this alone . this is not just about our security . it is about the common security of all the world .
now , just as those of us outside muslim communities need to reject the terrorist narrative that the west and islam are in conflict , or modern life and islam are in conflict , i also believe that muslim communities have a responsibility as well . al qaeda and isil do draw , selectively , from the islamic texts . they do depend upon the misperception around the world that they speak in some fashion for people of the muslim faith , that islam is somehow inherently violent , that there is some sort of clash of civilizations .
that ’ s why , for immigration reform to work , it must be clear from the outset that there is a pathway to citizenship . if we ’ re asking everybody to play by the same rules , you got to give people a sense of certainty that they go through all these sacrifices , do all this , that there ’ s at the end of the horizon , the opportunity -- not the guarantee , but the opportunity -- to be part of this american family . and by the way , a majority of americans support this idea .
but that 's also why we set up congressional oversight . these are the folks you all vote for as your representatives in congress , and they 're being fully briefed on these programs . and if , in fact , there was -- there were abuses taking place , presumably those members of congress could raise those issues very aggressively . they 're empowered to do so .
and that ’ s what you ’ re fighting for here in afghanistan , and that ’ s what you ’ re protecting back home . and that belief is more powerful than any adversary .
in the next hundred days , we will housetrain our dog , bo , because the last thing tim geithner needs is someone else treating him like a fire hydrant . in the next hundred days , i will strongly consider losing my cool .
the young woman i met at a science fair who won national recognition for her biology research while living with her family at a homeless shelter -- she gives me hope . the auto worker who won the lottery after his plant almost closed , but kept coming to work every day , and bought flags for his whole town and one of the cars that he built to surprise his wife -- he gives me hope .
and we ’ ve had arguments between politicians that have been settled with actual duels . there was even a caning once on the floor of the united states senate -- which i ’ m happy to say didn ’ t happen while i was there .
so as two great democracies , we speak up for those freedoms when they are threatened . we partner with emerging democracies , like indonesia , to help strengthen the institutions upon which good governance depends . we encourage open government , because democracies depend on an informed and active citizenry . we help strengthen civil societies , because they empower our citizens to hold their governments accountable . and we advance the rights of all people -- women , minorities and indigenous cultures -- because when societies harness the potential of all their citizens , these societies are more successful , they are more prosperous and they are more just .
it may be true that the law can ’ t make a man love me but it can keep him from lynching me , and i think that ’ s pretty important.3 and passing laws was what lbj knew how to do . no one knew politics and no one loved legislating more than president johnson . he was charming when he needed to be , ruthless when required . he could wear you down with logic and argument . he could horse trade , and he could flatter . you come with me on this bill , ” he would reportedly tell a key republican leader from my home state during the fight for the civil rights bill , “ and 200 years from now , schoolchildren will know only two names : abraham lincoln and everett dirksen ! and he knew that senators would believe things like that .
but if we are going to effectively isolate terrorists , if we 're going to address the challenge of their efforts to recruit our young people , if we 're going to lift up the voices of tolerance and pluralism within the muslim community , then we 've got to acknowledge that their job is made harder by a broader narrative that does exist in many muslim communities around the world that suggests the west is at odds with islam in some fashion .
now , the proponents of this budget will tell us we have to make all these draconian cuts because our deficit is so large ; this is an existential crisis , we have to think about future generations , so on and so on . and that argument might have a shred of credibility were it not for their proposal to also spend $ 4.6 trillion over the next decade on lower tax rates .
this ca n't be one of those times . the challenges are too great . the stakes are too high . i know how difficult it is for members of congress in both parties to grapple with some of the big decisions we face right now . i 'd love if these problems were coming at us one at a time instead of five or six at a time . it 's more than most congresses and most presidents have to deal with in a lifetime .
it simply does n't make sense that patients in the 21st century are still filling out forms with pens on papers that have to be stored away somewhere . as newt gingrich has rightly pointed out -- and i do n't quote newt gingrich that often -- we do a better job tracking a fedex package in this country than we do tracking patients ' health records .
this is the moment when we must renew our resolve to rout the terrorists who threaten our security in afghanistan , and the traffickers who sell drugs on your streets . no one welcomes war . i recognize the enormous difficulties in afghanistan . but my country and yours have a stake in seeing that nato ’ s first mission beyond europe ’ s borders is a success . for the people of afghanistan , and for our shared security , the work must be done . america ca n't do this alone . the afghan people need our troops and your troops ; our support and your support to defeat the taliban and al qaeda , to develop their economy , and to help them rebuild their nation . we have too much at stake to turn back now .
tonight , we gather to affirm the greatness of our nation -- not because of the height of our skyscrapers , or the power of our military , or the size of our economy . our pride is based on a very simple premise , summed up in a declaration made over two hundred years ago :
but my observation is , is that the people who are involved in america ’ s national security , they take this work very seriously . they cherish our constitution . the last thing they ’ d be doing is taking programs like this to listen to somebody ’ s phone calls .
and we ’ re fighting for veterans who want to start their own businesses , including more training in entrepreneurship . it ’ s one of the reasons we ’ ve cut taxes -- 18 times for small businesses , including veteran-owned businesses . and the effects ripple out , because vets are more likely to hire vets .
now , it 's not going to be enough . we 're going to have to do more . because the driving force on our deficits are entitlements spending . and that 's going to require both parties to work together , because those are some tough problems that we 're going to have to solve . and i am eager to work with both parties and with the chamber to take additional steps across the budget to put our nation on a sounder fiscal footing .
the wall belongs to history . but we have history to make as well . and the heroes that came before us now call to us to live up to those highest ideals -- to care for the young people who ca n't find a job in our own countries , and the girls who are n't allowed to go to school overseas ; to be vigilant in safeguarding our own freedoms , but also to extend a hand to those who are reaching for freedom abroad .
keep in mind , i have never been somebody who believes that government can or should try to solve every problem . some of you know my first job in chicago was working with a group of catholic churches that often did more good for the people in their communities than any government program could . in those same communities i saw that no education policy , however well crafted , can take the place of a parent ’ s love and attention .
governments should practice the same principle as doctors : first , do no harm . so rest assured -- we will do whatever is necessary to get credit flowing again , but we will do so in ways that minimize risks to taxpayers and to the broader economy . to that end , in addition to the program to provide capital to the banks , we 've launched a plan that will pair government resources with private investment in order to clear away the old loans and securities -- the so-called toxic assets -- that are also preventing our banks from lending money .
considering the vast learning of this self-taught senator -- his speeches sprinkled with the likes of cicero and shakespeare and jefferson -- it seems fitting to close with one of his favorite passages in literature , a passage from moby dick :
and so out of the filth , that became a space in which small freedoms could thrive when the american gis arrived they were astonished to find more than 900 children still alive , and the youngest was just three years old . and i 'm told that a couple of the prisoners even wrote a buchenwald song that many here sang . among the lyrics were these : `` ... whatever our fate , we will say yes to life , for the day will come when we are free ... in our blood we carry the will to live and in our hearts , in our hearts -- faith . ''
indeed , i ’ d ask every member of congress , and those of you watching at home tonight , to view those videos of the attack , and then ask : what kind of world will we live in if the united states of america sees a dictator brazenly violate international law with poison gas , and we choose to look the other way ?
deprivation and discrimination -- these were not abstractions to lyndon baines johnson . he knew that poverty and injustice are as inseparable as opportunity and justice are joined . so that was in him from an early age .
america , it is time to focus on nation building here at home . in this effort , we draw inspiration from our fellow americans who have sacrificed so much on our behalf . to our troops , our veterans and their families , i speak for all americans when i say that we will keep our sacred trust with you , and provide you with the care and benefits and opportunity that you deserve .
those are concrete actions we ’ ve taken to meet the commitment i have to you and that the american people have to you . because you ’ ve always taken care of america , america needs to take care of you . and that ’ s my main message here today . we ’ re all in this together . in our country , there isn ’ t a “ military world ” and a “ civilian world. ” we ’ re all americans . there ’ s not democrats and republicans , when you take the long view -- we ’ re all americans . we all rise and fall together . and we all need to do our part to get through the challenges we face as a people .
clearly , we ’ re already in the beginning months of another long , lively election year . there will be gaffes and minor controversies , be hot mics and etch-a-sketch moments . you will cover every word that we say , and we will complain vociferously about the unflattering words that you write -- unless , of course , you 're writing about the other guy -- in which case , good job .
it was not a clash of armies , but a clash of wills ; a contest to determine the true meaning of america . and because of men and women like john lewis , joseph lowery , hosea williams , amelia boynton , diane nash , ralph abernathy , c.t . vivian , andrew young , fred shuttlesworth , dr. martin luther king , jr. , and so many others , the idea of a just america and a fair america , an inclusive america , and a generous america -- that idea ultimately triumphed .
i have asked the department of defense to designate a site in the united states where we can hold military commissions . i ’ m appointing a new senior envoy at the state department and defense department whose sole responsibility will be to achieve the transfer of detainees to third countries .
despite barriers of distance and geography , you ’ ve integrated chile into the global economy , trading with countries all over the world and , in this internet age , becoming the most digitally connected country in latin america .
and i ’ ve said this before : it would be a moral failing on the part of the u.s. government and the american people , it would be a moral failing on my part if we did not stand up firmly , steadfastly not just on behalf of israel ’ s right to exist , but its right to thrive and prosper . because it would ignore the history that brought the state of israel about . it would ignore the struggle that ’ s taken place through millennia to try to affirm the kinds of values that say everybody has a place , everybody has rights , everybody is a child of god .
this congressional republican budget is something different altogether . it is a trojan horse . disguised as deficit reduction plans , it is really an attempt to impose a radical vision on our country . it is thinly veiled social darwinism . it is antithetical to our entire history as a land of opportunity and upward mobility for everybody who ’ s willing to work for it ; a place where prosperity doesn ’ t trickle down from the top , but grows outward from the heart of the middle class . and by gutting the very things we need to grow an economy that ’ s built to last -- education and training , research and development , our infrastructure -- it is a prescription for decline .
because the bottom line ultimately is , i just want people to know what their options are in a clear way . and buying health insurance is never going to be like buying a song on itunes . it ’ s just a much more complicated transaction . but i think we can continue to make it better -- all of which is to say that on december 1st , november 30th , it will be a lot better , but there will still be some problems . some of those will not be because of technological problems -- although i ’ m sure that there will still be some glitches that have to be smoothed out . some of it ’ s going to be how are we making this application process more user-friendly for folks .
we shouldn ’ t be weakening oversight and accountability . we should be strengthening oversight and accountability . i ’ ll give you another example . too often , we ’ ve seen wall street firms violating major anti-fraud laws because the penalties are too weak and there ’ s no price for being a repeat offender . no more . i ’ ll be calling for legislation that makes those penalties count so that firms don ’ t see punishment for breaking the law as just the price of doing business .
so this is not unique to one group or one religion . there is a tendency in us , a sinful tendency that can pervert and distort our faith . in today 's world , when hate groups have their own twitter accounts and bigotry can fester in hidden places in cyberspace , it can be even harder to counteract such intolerance . but god compels us to try . and in this mission , i believe there are a few principles that can guide us , particularly those of us who profess to believe .
we could have strengthened old alliances , formed new partnerships , and renewed international institutions to advance peace and prosperity . we could have called on a new generation to step into the strong currents of history , and to serve their country as troops and teachers , peace corps volunteers and police officers .
and these are simple truths , but they must be defended . america and our allies will support the people of ukraine as they develop their democracy and economy . we will reinforce our nato allies and uphold our commitment to collective self-defense . we will impose a cost on russia for aggression , and we will counter falsehoods with the truth . and we call upon others to join us on the right side of history -- for while small gains can be won at the barrel of a gun , they will ultimately be turned back if enough voices support the freedom of nations and peoples to make their own decisions .
violent extremists have exploited these tensions in a small but potent minority of muslims . the attacks of september 11 , 2001 and the continued efforts of these extremists to engage in violence against civilians has led some in my country to view islam as inevitably hostile not only to america and western countries , but also to human rights . all this has bred more fear and more mistrust .
that american spirit includes staying true to the unity and diversity that makes us strong -- like no other nation in the world . in this age of instant reporting and tweets and blogs , there 's a temptation to latch on to any bit of information , sometimes to jump to conclusions . but when a tragedy like this happens , with public safety at risk and the stakes so high , it 's important that we do this right . that 's why we have investigations . that 's why we relentlessly gather the facts . that 's why we have courts . and that 's why we take care not to rush to judgment -- not about the motivations of these individuals ; certainly not about entire groups of people .
you 'd think they ’ d say , you know what , maybe some rules and regulations are necessary to protect the economy and prevent people from being taken advantage of by insurance companies or credit card companies or mortgage lenders .
now , i also want to say thank you to your families back home so that when you talk to them you know that they know . they ’ re serving here with you -- in mind and spirit , if not in body .
in the letter that julia wrote me , she said , “ i know that laws have to be passed by congress , but i beg you to try very hard. ” julia , i will try very hard . but she ’ s right . the most important changes we can make depend on congressional action . they need to bring these proposals up for a vote , and the american people need to make sure that they do .
and finally , as you do these things , do them not just for yourself , but do n't even do them just for the african american community . i want you to set your sights higher . at the turn of the last century , w.e.b . dubois spoke about the “ talented tenth ” -- a class of highly educated , socially conscious leaders in the black community . but it ’ s not just the african american community that needs you . the country needs you . the world needs you .
more broadly , i think it 's important for us to recognize that this outrageous event underscores that it is time for peace and security to be restored in ukraine . for months , we ’ ve supported a pathway to peace , and the ukrainian government has reached out to all ukrainians , put forward a peace plan , and lived up to a cease-fire , despite repeated violations by the separatists -- violations that took the lives of ukrainian soldiers and personnel .
second , we have to deal with the 11 million individuals who are here illegally . we all agree that these men and women should have to earn their way to citizenship . but for comprehensive immigration reform to work , it must be clear from the outset that there is a pathway to citizenship .
now , our mission remains the same as it has since this disaster began , since the day i visited louisiana nearly four weeks ago : we want to stop the leak ; we want to contain and clean up the oil ; and we want to help the people of this region return to their lives and their livelihoods as soon as possible .
now , i obviously never met father kapaun . but i have a sense of the man he was , because in his story i see reflections of my own grandparents and their values , the people who helped to raise me . emil and my grandfather were both born in kansas about the same time , both were raised in small towns outside of wichita . they were part of that greatest generation -- surviving the depression , joining the army , serving in world war ii . and they embodied those heartland values of honesty and hard work , decency and humility -- quiet heroes determined to do their part .
so it has been . so it must be with this generation of americans . that we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood . our nation is at war , against a far-reaching network of violence and hatred . our economy is badly weakened , a consequence of greed and irresponsibility on the part of some , but also our collective failure to make hard choices and prepare the nation for a new age . homes have been lost ; jobs shed ; businesses shuttered . our health care is too costly ; our schools fail too many ; and each day brings further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet .
the battle-scarred veterans who devote themselves not only to helping their fellow warriors stand again , and walk again , and run again , but to keep serving their country when they come home -- they are marching .
here ’ s the problem : in that same speech , he also came out against any plan to cut the deficit that includes any additional revenues whatsoever . he said -- i 'm quoting him -- there is “ only one option. ” and that option and only option relies entirely on cuts .
it is this spirit of civility that we are called to take up when we leave here today . that 's what i 'm praying for . i know in difficult times like these -- when people are frustrated , when pundits start shouting and politicians start calling each other names -- it can seem like a return to civility is not possible , like the very idea is a relic of some bygone era . the word itself seems quaint -- civility .
we ’ re starting this drawdown from a position of strength . al qaeda is under more pressure than at any time since 9/11 . together with the pakistanis , we have taken out more than half of al qaeda ’ s leadership . and thanks to our intelligence professionals and special forces , we killed osama bin laden , the only leader that al qaeda had ever known . this was a victory for all who have served since 9/11 . one soldier summed it up well . “ the message , ” he said , “ is we don ’ t forget . you will be held accountable , no matter how long it takes . ”
right now , there is a man on a boat , casting the net with his bleeding hands , knowing he deserves a better life , a life of dignity , but doesn ’ t know if anybody is paying attention .
there were six members of this commission . it included five whites and one african american , democrats and republicans , two southern governors , the dean of a southern law school , a midwestern university president , and your own father ted hesburgh , president of notre dame . so they worked for two years , and at times president eisenhower had to intervene personally since no hotel or restaurant in the south would serve the black and white members of the commission together . and finally when they reached an impasse in louisiana , father ted flew them all to notre dame 's retreat in land o'lakes , wisconsin -- where they eventually -- where they eventually overcame their differences and hammered out a final deal .
but the other strand is the belief that there are some things we can only do together , as one nation -- and that our government must keep pace with the times . when america expanded from a few colonies to an entire continent , and we needed a way to reach the pacific , our government helped build the railroads .
and by the way , i believe the vast majority of wealthy americans and ceos are willing to do just that if it helps the economy grow and gets our fiscal house in order i ’ ll also offer ideas to reform a corporate tax code that stands as a monument to special interest influence in washington . by eliminating pages of loopholes and deductions , we can lower one of the highest corporate tax rates in the world . our tax code should not give an advantage to companies that can afford the best-connected lobbyists . it should give an advantage to companies that invest and create jobs right here in the united states of america .
democracy in a nation of 300 million can be noisy and messy and complicated . we have our own opinions . each of us has deeply held beliefs . and when we go through tough times , when we make big decisions as a country , it necessarily stirs passions , stirs up controversy . that won ’ t change after tonight -- and it shouldn ’ t . these arguments we have are a mark of our liberty , and we can never forget that as we speak , people in distant nations are risking their lives right now just for a chance to argue about the issues that matter , the chance to cast their ballots like we did today .
…magna carta , the bill of rights , habeas corpus , trial by jury , and english common law find their most famous expression in the american declaration of independence . for both of our nations , living up to the ideals enshrined in these founding documents has sometimes been difficult , has always been a work in progress . the path has never been perfect . but through the struggles of slaves and immigrants , women and ethnic minorities , former colonies and persecuted religions , we have learned better than most that the longing for freedom and human dignity is not english or american or western -- it is universal , and it beats in every heart . perhaps that ’ s why there are few nations that stand firmer , speak louder , and fight harder to defend democratic values around the world than the united states and the united kingdom .
i know this creates difficulty for the people who work on these rigs , but for the sake of their safety , and for the sake of the entire region , we need to know the facts before we allow deepwater drilling to continue .
well , i agree that we can ’ t afford wasteful spending , and i ’ ll work with you , with congress , to root it out . and i agree that there are some rules and regulations that do put an unnecessary burden on businesses at a time when they can least afford it . that ’ s why i ordered a review of all government regulations . so far , we ’ ve identified over 500 reforms , which will save billions of dollars over the next few years . we should have no more regulation than the health , safety and security of the american people require . every rule should meet that common-sense test .
and i tried to explain , you do n't understand . you see , my grandfather was a cook to the british in kenya . grew up in a small village and all his life , that 's all he was -- a cook and a house boy . and that 's what they called him , even when he was 60 years old . they called him a house boy . they would n't call him by his last name .
and i want to acknowledge my tireless homeland security advisor who helped , and continues to shape , our cybersecurity efforts -- lisa monaco . thank you , lisa so i ’ d always heard about this campus , and everybody is riding bikes , and people hopping into fountains -- and the current holder of the axe . this is the place that made “ nerd ” cool . i was thinking about wearing some black-rimmed glasses , some tape in the middle , but i guess that ’ s not what you do anymore . ambassador mcfaul told me if i came to stanford , you ’ d “ talk nerdy to me . ”
and that 's why i wanted to tell you first that i 'll be filing papers today to create a presidential exploratory committee . for the next several weeks , i 'm going to talk with people from around the country , listening and learning more about the challenges we face as a nation , the opportunities that lie before us , and the role that a presidential campaign might play in bringing our country together . and on february 10th , at the end of these discussions and in my home state of illinois , i 'll share my plans with my friends , neighbors , and fellow americans .
so folks ' premiums in the individual market will drop by 50 percent . and for them and for the millions of americans who ’ ve been able to cover their sick kids for the first time -- like this gentlemen who just said his daughter has got health insurance -- or have been able to cover their employees more cheaply , or are able to have their kids who are younger than -- who are 25 or 26 stay on their parents ' plan -- for all those folks , you 'll have the security of knowing that everything you ’ ve worked hard for is no longer one illness away from being wiped out
now , i know that some in my own party will argue that we ca n't address the deficit or freeze government spending when so many are still hurting . and i agree -- which is why this freeze wo n't take effect until next year -- when the economy is stronger . that 's how budgeting works . but understand -- understand if we do n't take meaningful steps to rein in our debt , it could damage our markets , increase the cost of borrowing , and jeopardize our recovery -- all of which would have an even worse effect on our job growth and family incomes .
we also send our prayers to the collier family who grieve the loss of their son and brother , sean . `` he was born to be a police officer , '' said his chief at mit . he was just 26 years old . and as his family has said , he died bravely in the line of duty , doing what he committed his life to doing -- serving and protecting others . so we 're grateful to him .
if we ’ re honest with ourselves , we have to admit that there have been times when we 've scorned our gay brothers and sisters instead of embracing them . the scourge of anti-semitism has at times revealed itself in our community .
this is not conjecture . i am not exaggerating . these are facts . and these are just the cuts that would happen the year after next . if this budget became law , by the middle of the century , funding for the kinds of things i just mentioned would have to be cut by about 95 percent . let me repeat that . those categories i just mentioned we would have to cut by 95 percent . as a practical matter , the federal budget would basically amount to whatever is left in entitlements , defense spending , and interest on the national debt -- period . money for these investments that have traditionally been supported on a bipartisan basis would be practically eliminated .
yes we can . yes we can . yes we can . it was a creed written into the founding documents that declared the destiny of a nation : yes , we can . it was whispered by slaves and abolitionists as they blazed a trail towards freedom through the darkest of nights : yes , we can .
my administration is leading global discussions towards a new international framework in which all countries who are operating nuclear plants are making sure that they ’ re not spreading dangerous nuclear materials and technology .
and the notion that republicans in the house , or maybe some republicans in the senate , would suggest that “ in order for us to get our way on our spending priorities , that we would risk the full faith and credit of the united states ” -- that i think is not what the founders intended . that 's not how i think most americans think our democracy should work . they 've got a point of view ; democrats in congress have a point of view . they need to sit down and work out a compromise .
i ’ m going to embarrass him further . last year , when we were trying to fill -- figure out how to close the cap , i sent chu down to sit in the bp offices , and he essentially designed the cap that ultimately worked , and he drew up the specs for it and had bp build it , construct it . so this is somebody who knows what he ’ s doing . so for those of you who are studying physics , it may actually pay off someday .
on monday morning , the sun rose over boston . the sunlight glistened off the statehouse dome . in the common and the public garden , spring was in bloom . on this patriot ’ s day , like so many before , fans jumped onto the t to see the sox at fenway . in hopkinton , runners laced up their shoes and set out on a 26.2-mile test of dedication and grit and the human spirit . and across this city , hundreds of thousands of bostonians lined the streets -- to hand the runners cups of water and to cheer them on .
in the 18 months since the surge began , the situation in afghanistan has deteriorated . june was our highest casualty month of the war . the taliban has been on the offensive , even launching a brazen attack on one of our bases . al qaida has a growing sanctuary in pakistan . that is a consequence of our current strategy .
and just as we 've given our teachers all the support they need to be successful , we need to make sure our students have the teacher they need to be successful . and that means states and school districts taking steps to move bad teachers out of the classroom .
and these americans are here with me today because , even though the government is closed , a big part of the affordable care act is now open for business . and for them , and millions like them , this is a historic day for a good reason . it ’ s been a long time coming , but today , americans who have been forced to go without insurance can now visit healthcare.gov and enroll in affordable new plans that offer quality coverage . that starts today .
all in all , this has been a tough week . but we 've seen the character of our country once more . and as president , i 'm confident that we have the courage and the resilience and the spirit to overcome these challenges -- and to go forward , as one nation under god , indivisible , with liberty and justice for all .
the reason for this close friendship doesn ’ t just have to do with our shared history , our shared heritage ; our ties of language and culture ; or even the strong partnership between our governments . our relationship is special because of the values and beliefs that have united our people through the ages .
now , there 's a parable at the end of the sermon on the mount that tells the story of two men . the first built his house on a pile of sand , and it was soon destroyed when a storm hit . but the second is known as the wise man , for when `` the rain descended , and the floods came , and the winds blew , and beat upon that house , it fell not : for it was founded upon a rock . ''
that world has changed . and for many , the change has been painful . i ’ ve seen it in the shuttered windows of once booming factories , and the vacant storefronts on once busy main streets . i ’ ve heard it in the frustrations of americans who ’ ve seen their paychecks dwindle or their jobs disappear -– proud men and women who feel like the rules have been changed in the middle of the game .
we are always americans first despite -- despite what the good senator from arizona may have said tonight , i ’ ve seen people of differing views and opinions find common cause many times during my two decades in public life , and i ’ ve brought many together myself .
and so these critics argue that any intervention to protect civilians is doomed to fail -- look at libya . no one is more mindful of these problems than i am , for they resulted in the death of four outstanding u.s. citizens who were committed to the libyan people , including ambassador chris stevens -- a man whose courageous efforts helped save the city of benghazi .
that 's what we 're doing now . of course , i realize that for some , this is n't enough . i know there 's a criticism out there that my administration has been spending with reckless abandon , pushing a liberal social agenda while mortgaging our children 's future . you 've heard the argument .
if this tragedy prompts reflection and debate -- as it should -- let ’ s make sure it ’ s worthy of those we have lost . let ’ s make sure it ’ s not on the usual plane of politics and point-scoring and pettiness that drifts away in the next news cycle .
throughout our history , that has only made our nation stronger . and it ’ s how we will make sure that this century is the same as the last : an american century welcoming of everybody who aspires to do something more , and who is willing to work hard to do it , and is willing to pledge that allegiance to our flag .
now , so you ’ ve got a good job ; you get a good education -- those have always been the key stepping stones into the middle class . but a home of your own has always been the clearest expression of middle-class security . for most families , that ’ s your biggest asset . for most families , that ’ s where your life ’ s work has been invested . and that changed during the crisis , when we saw millions of middle-class families experience their home values plummeting . the good news is over the past four years , we ’ ve helped more responsible homeowners stay in their homes . and today , sales are up and prices are up , and fewer americans see their homes underwater .
we must continually renew this promise . my administration has a civil rights division that is once again prosecuting civil rights violations and employment discrimination . we finally strengthened -- we finally strengthened our laws to protect against crimes driven by hate . this year -- this year , i will work with congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay americans the right to serve the country they love because of who they are . it 's the right thing to do .
but we need to remember : we 're only at the beginning . the epochs of history are long -- the agricultural revolution ; the industrial revolution . by comparison , our information age is still in its infancy . we 're only at web 2.0. now our virtual world is going viral . and we 've only just begun to explore the next generation of technologies that will transform our lives in ways we ca n't even begin to imagine .
on all these matters related to the disclosure of sensitive information , i wish i could say that there was some simple formula out there to be had . there is not . these often involve tough calls , involve competing concerns , and they require a surgical approach . but the common thread that runs through all of my decisions is simple : we will safeguard what we must to protect the american people , but we will also ensure the accountability and oversight that is the hallmark of our constitutional system . i will never hide the truth because it 's uncomfortable . i will deal with congress and the courts as co-equal branches of government . i will tell the american people what i know and do n't know , and when i release something publicly or keep something secret , i will tell you why .
now , clean energy breakthroughs will only translate into clean energy jobs if businesses know there will be a market for what they ’ re selling . so tonight , i challenge you to join me in setting a new goal : by 2035 , 80 percent of america ’ s electricity will come from clean energy sources .
to build an economy that can lead this future , we will begin to rebuild america . yes , we 'll put people to work repairing crumbling roads , bridges , and schools by eliminating the backlog of well-planned , worthy , and needed infrastructure projects .
and secondly , on the issue of hillary clinton , vice president biden , of course , said that the democratic race is wide open . the polls seem to say otherwise . what is your opinion on that ? is the race still wide open ?
let ’ s recommit to defending democracy and human rights in our own countries by strengthening the institutions that democracy needs to flourish -- free and fair elections in which people choose their own leaders ; vibrant legislatures that provide oversight ; independent judiciaries that uphold the rule of law ; a free press that promotes open debate ; professional militaries under civilian control ; strong civil societies that hold governments accountable ; and governments that are transparent and responsive to their citizens . this is what makes a democracy .
as president , i will lead this effort . in the first 100 days of my administration , i will travel to a major islamic forum and deliver an address to redefine our struggle . i will make clear that we are not at war with islam , that we will stand with those who are willing to stand up for their future , and that we need their effort to defeat the prophets of hate and violence . i will speak directly to that child who looks up at that helicopter , and my message will be clear : “ you matter to us . your future is our future . and our moment is now . ”
and she said in her valentine , `` i enjoy being an american . '' and when she grows up , she wants to be an engineer -- or a basketball player . which are good choices .
and finally , we will not tolerate the development or use of weapons of mass destruction . just as we consider the use of chemical weapons in syria to be a threat to our own national security , we reject the development of nuclear weapons that could trigger a nuclear arms race in the region , and undermine the global nonproliferation regime .
but we also gather here , deep in the heart of the state that shaped him , to recall one giant man ’ s remarkable efforts to make real the promise of our founding : “ we hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal . ”
so tonight , i ask congress to change the higher education act so that affordability and value are included in determining which colleges receive certain types of federal aid . and tomorrow , my administration will release a new “ college scorecard ” that parents and students can use to compare schools based on a simple criteria -- where you can get the most bang for your educational buck .
in iraq , killings and car bombs continue to be a terrible part of life . and meanwhile , al qaeda has splintered into regional networks and militias , which does n't give them the capacity at this point to carry out attacks like 9/11 , but does pose serious threats to governments and diplomats , businesses and civilians all across the globe
let ’ s begin with a basic truth that you all understand : no israeli government can tolerate a nuclear weapon in the hands of a regime that denies the holocaust , threatens to wipe israel off the map , and sponsors terrorist groups committed to israel ’ s destruction . and so i understand the profound historical obligation that weighs on the shoulders of bibi netanyahu and ehud barak , and all of israel ’ s leaders .
the people of the americas have shown that there is no substitute for democracy . as governments , we have then an obligation to defend what has been won . so as we mark the 10th anniversary of the inter-american democratic charter this year , let ’ s reaffirm the principles that we know to be true .
so to the iraqi people , let me be clear about america ’ s intentions . the united states pursues no claim on your territory or your resources . we respect your sovereignty and the tremendous sacrifices you have made for your country . we seek a full transition to iraqi responsibility for the security of your country . and going forward , we can build a lasting relationship founded upon mutual interests and mutual respect as iraq takes its rightful place in the community of nations .
now i recognize many are pessimistic about this process . the cynics say that israelis and palestinians are too distrustful of each other , and too divided internally , to forge lasting peace . rejectionists on both sides will try to disrupt the process , with bitter words and with bombs and with gunfire . some say that the gaps between the parties are too big ; the potential for talks to break down is too great ; and that after decades of failure , peace is simply not possible .
what those soldiers saw when they looked on this building was a very different sight than the one we see today , for it remained unfinished until the end of the war . the laborers who built the dome came to work wondering each day whether that would be their last ; whether the metal they were using for its frame would be requisitioned for the war and melted down into bullets . but each day went by without any orders to halt construction , and so they kept on working , and kept on building .
we are here tonight to say that that is not the america we believe in . i did not travel around this state over the last year and see a white south carolina or a black south carolina . i saw south carolina -- because in the end , we 're not up just against the ingrained and destructive habits of washington . we 're also struggling with our own doubts , our own fears , our own cynicism . the change we seek has always required great struggle and great sacrifice . and so this is a battle in our own hearts and minds about what kind of country we want and how hard we 're willing to work for it .
we remain a young nation , but in the words of scripture , the time has come to `` set aside childish things . `` 2 the time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit ; to choose our better history ; to carry forward that precious gift , that noble idea , passed on from generation to generation : the god-given promise that all are equal , all are free , and all deserve a chance to pursue their full measure of happiness .
thank you . god bless you , and god bless these united states of america . well . it is good to be back in las vegas . and it is good to be among so many good friends .
we ’ re the firefighters who rushed into those buildings on 9/11 , the volunteers who signed up to fight in afghanistan and iraq . we ’ re the gay americans whose blood ran in the streets of san francisco and new york , just as blood ran down this bridge .
unfortunately , for the past several weeks , republican house members have essentially said that the only way they ’ ll vote to prevent america ’ s first-ever default is if the rest of us agree to their deep , spending cuts-only approach .
neither the american , nor cuban people are well served by a rigid policy that is rooted in events that took place before most of us were born . consider that for more than 35 years , we ’ ve had relations with china -- a far larger country also governed by a communist party . nearly two decades ago , we reestablished relations with vietnam , where we fought a war that claimed more americans than any cold war confrontation .
as we know , these men belonged to al qaeda -- a group of extremists who have distorted and defiled islam , one of the world 's great religions , to justify the slaughter of innocents . al qaeda 's base of operations was in afghanistan , where they were harbored by the taliban -- a ruthless , repressive , and radical movement that seized control of that country after it was ravaged by years of soviet occupation and civil war , and after the attention of america and our friends had turned elsewhere .
despite all the bonds and the values that we share , despite all the people who claim heritage on both sides , our attitudes sometimes are trapped in old stereotypes . some americans only see the mexico that is depicted in sensational headlines of violence and border crossings . and let ’ s admit it , some mexicans think that america disrespects mexico , or thinks that america is trying to impose itself on mexican sovereignty , or just wants to wall ourselves off . and in both countries such distortions create misunderstandings that make it harder for us to move forward together . so i 've come to mexico because i think it ’ s time for us to put the old mind-sets aside . it ’ s time to recognize new realities -- including the impressive progress of today ’ s mexico .
now , since this is a joyous occasion , this is not the time for me to suggest a slew of new ideas for reform . although i do have some . maybe i ’ ll just mention one .
they keep telling us that if we ’ d just strip away more regulations , and let businesses pollute more and treat workers and consumers with impunity , that somehow we ’ d all be better off .
and matt recently completed his tour . he is back home and is looking ahead to many years of service . reflecting on his journey -- his mission to return to his unit -- he said he was determined , “ however long it was going to take . ”
in the coming hours and days , i ’ ll continue to be in close contact with leaders from around the world as we respond to this catastrophe . our immediate focus will be on recovering those who were lost , investigating exactly what happened , and putting forward the facts .
we will disrupt , dismantle and defeat al qaeda , while preventing afghanistan from again serving as a base for terrorists . and because of our drawdown in iraq , we are now able to apply the resources necessary to go on offense .
it is fitting that we are holding this celebration here at the capitol , for the life of this building is bound ever so closely to the times of this immortal president . built by artisans and craftsmen , but also immigrants and slaves , it was here , in the rotunda , that union soldiers received help from a makeshift hospital ; it was downstairs , in the basement , that they were baked bread to give them strength ; and it was in the senate and house chambers where they slept at night and spent some of their days .
when bostonians carry victims in their arms , deliver water and blankets , line up to give blood , open their homes to total strangers , give them rides back to reunite with their families -- that ’ s love .
to the commandant , general rapp , the academy staff and faculty , most of whom are veterans , thank you for your service and for inspiring these cadets to become the `` leaders of character '' they are today . let me also acknowledge the presence of general shinseki , secretary mchugh , the members of congress who are with us here today , including two former soldiers this academy knows well , senator jack reed and congressman patrick murphy .
that 's how we have railroads and highways , public schools and police forces . that 's how we 've made possible scientific research that has led to medical breakthroughs like the vaccine for hepatitis b , and technological wonders like gps . that 's how we have social security and a minimum wage , and laws to protect the food we eat and the water we drink and the air that we breathe . that ’ s how we have rules to ensure that mines are safe and , yes , that oil companies pay for the spills that they cause .
i think of a friend of mine who ’ s the daughter of immigrants . when she was in high school , her guidance counselor told her , you know what , you ’ re just not college material . you should think about becoming a secretary . well , she was stubborn , so she went to college anyway . she got her master ’ s . she ran for local office , won . she ran for state office , she won . she ran for congress , she won . and lo and behold , hilda solis did end up becoming a secretary -- she is america ’ s secretary of labor .
the aumf is now nearly 12 years old . the afghan war is coming to an end . core al qaeda is a shell of its former self . groups like aqap must be dealt with , but in the years to come , not every collection of thugs that labels themselves al qaeda will pose a credible threat to the united states . unless we discipline our thinking , our definitions , our actions , we may be drawn into more wars we don ’ t need to fight , or continue to grant presidents unbound powers more suited for traditional armed conflicts between nation states .
thank you very much , everybody . well , this is going to be the first opportunity that i have to get an extensive debriefing from secretary carter , who took a trip last week to afghanistan and other parts of the region . he ’ ll be giving me some impressions about how we ’ re planning our drawdown and transition in afghanistan , and talk about some other regional issues .
this brings me to the fourth step in my strategy : i will make clear that the days of compromising our values are over . major general paul eaton had a long and distinguished career serving this country . it included training the iraqi army . after abu ghraib , his senior iraqi advisor came into his office and said : “ you have no idea how this will play out on the streets of baghdad and the rest of the arab world . how can this be ? ” this was not the america he had looked up to .
here we see the strength of democracy : citizens raising their voices , free from fear . here we see political parties competing in open and honest elections . here we see an independent judiciary working to uphold the rule of law . here in poland we see a vibrant press and a growing civil society that holds leaders accountable -- because governments exist to lift up their people , not to hold them down .
so , class of 2010 , what we should be asking is not whether we need “ big government ” or a “ small government , ” but how we can create a smarter and better government . because in an era of ipods and tivo , where we have more choices than ever before -- even though i ca n't really work a lot of these things -- but i have 23-year-olds who do it for me -- government shouldn ’ t try to dictate your lives . but it should give you the tools you need to succeed . government shouldn ’ t try to guarantee results , but it should guarantee a shot at opportunity for every american who ’ s willing to work hard .
and even then , the cost to our relationship with pakistan -- and the backlash among the pakistani public over encroachment on their territory -- was so severe that we are just now beginning to rebuild this important partnership .
our problems must be dealt with through partnership ; our progress must be shared . now , that does not mean we should ignore sources of tension . indeed , it suggests the opposite : we must face these tensions squarely .
this is my fourth visit to mexico as president . this is my second visit to this museum . and each time that i 've come i ’ ve been inspired by your culture and by the beauty of this land , and most of all , by the mexican people . you ’ ve been so kind and gracious to me . you ’ ve welcomed my wife , michelle , here . you ’ ve welcomed our daughter , malia , and her classmates to oaxaca . and as a proud father , i have to say that malia ’ s spanish is getting very good . it helps that she ’ s smarter than i am .
finally , i believe that my next hundred days will be so successful i will be able to complete them in 72 days . and on the 73rd day , i will rest . i just -- i want to end by saying a few words about the men and women in this room whose job it is to inform the public and pursue the truth . you know , we meet tonight at a moment of extraordinary challenge for this nation and for the world , but it 's also a time of real hardship for the field of journalism . and like so many other businesses in this global age , you 've seen sweeping changes and technology and communications that lead to a sense of uncertainty and anxiety about what the future will hold .
around the world , we 've strengthened old alliances and forged new coalitions to stop the spread of nuclear weapons . we 've reasserted our power across the pacific and stood up to china on behalf of our workers . from burma to libya to south sudan , we have advanced the rights and dignity of all human beings -- men and women , christians and muslims and jews .
and there is a simple truth to this story : turkey 's democracy is your own achievement . it was not forced upon you by any outside power , nor did it come without struggle and sacrifice . turkey draws strength from both the successes of the past , and from the efforts of each generation of turks that makes new progress for your people .
we are not quitters . we are not quitters . these words and these stories tell us something about the spirit of the people who sent us here . they tell us that even in the most trying times , amid the most difficult circumstances , there is a generosity , a resilience , a decency , and a determination that perseveres ; a willingness to take responsibility for our future and for posterity .
but no matter what we argue , no matter where we stand , we ’ ve always held certain beliefs as americans . we believe that in order to preserve our own freedoms and pursue our own happiness , we can ’ t just think about ourselves . we have to think about the country that made these liberties possible . we have to think about our fellow citizens with whom we share a community . and we have to think about what ’ s required to preserve the american dream for future generations .
our infrastructure used to be the best , but our lead has slipped . south korean homes now have greater internet access than we do . countries in europe and russia invest more in their roads and railways than we do . china is building faster trains and newer airports . meanwhile , when our own engineers graded our nation ’ s infrastructure , they gave us a “ d . ”
of course , we are not the first generation to face these challenges . fifty years ago this month , president john f. kennedy proposed an ambitious alliance for progress . it was , even by today ’ s standards , a massive investment -- billions of u.s. dollars to meet the basic needs of people across the region . such a program was right -- it was appropriate for that era . but the realities of our time -- and the new capabilities and confidence of latin america -- demand something different .
it ’ s time for every member state to open its elections to international monitors and increase the u.n. democracy fund . it ’ s time to reinvigorate u.n. peacekeeping , so that missions have the resources necessary to succeed , and so atrocities like sexual violence are prevented and justice is enforced -- because neither dignity nor democracy can thrive without basic security .
there is never an excuse for violence against police , or for those who would use this tragedy as a cover for vandalism or looting . there ’ s also no excuse for police to use excessive force against peaceful protests , or to throw protestors in jail for lawfully exercising their first amendment rights . and here , in the united states of america , police should not be bullying or arresting journalists who are just trying to do their jobs and report to the american people on what they see on the ground . put simply , we all need to hold ourselves to a high standard , particularly those of us in positions of authority .
now , supporters of this conference report have argued we should just hold our noses and support this legislation because it 's not going to get any better . that is not a good argument . we can do better . we 've got time to do better . it does n't convince me that i should support this report . i believe we owe it to the nation , we owe it to those who fought for our civil liberties , we owe it to the future and our children to make sure that we craft the kind of legislation that would make us proud , not just legislation that we would settle for because we 're in a rush . we do n't have to settle for a patriot act that sacrifices our liberties or our safety . we can have one that secures both .
once you get on the phone with a trained representative , it usually takes about 25 minutes for an individual to apply for coverage , about 45 minutes for a family . once you apply for coverage , you will be contacted by email or postal mail about your coverage status .
it is because of these failures that america is listening , intently , to what we say here today -- not just democrats , but republicans and independents who ’ ve lost trust in their government , but want to believe again . and it is because of these failures that we not only have a moment of great challenge , but also a moment of great opportunity . we have a chance to bring the country together in a new majority -- to finally tackle problems that george bush made far worse , but that had festered long before george bush ever took office -- problems that we ’ ve talked about year after year after year after year .
that dream -– that american dream -– is what drove the allen brothers to reinvent their roofing company for a new era . it ’ s what drove those students at forsyth tech to learn a new skill and work towards the future . and that dream is the story of a small business owner named brandon fisher .
we believe in a generous america ; in a compassionate america ; in a tolerant america , open to the dreams of an immigrant ’ s daughter who studies in our schools and pledges to our flag . to the young boy on the south side of chicago who sees a life beyond the nearest street corner . to the furniture worker ’ s child in north carolina who wants to become a doctor or a scientist , an engineer or entrepreneur , a diplomat or even a president . that ’ s the future we hope for . that ’ s the vision we share . that ’ s where we need to go . forward . that 's where we need to go .
and that view was rejected by the american people when it was debated during the presidential campaign . i think every poll that ’ s out there indicates that the american people actually think our commitment to medicare or to education is really important , and that ’ s something that we should look at as a last resort in terms of reducing the deficit , and it makes a lot more sense for us to close , for example , corporate loopholes before we go to putting a bigger burden on students or seniors .
the united states remains the world ’ s largest and most dynamic economy . but in an interconnected world , we all rise and fall together . that ’ s why i pushed so hard to put the g20 at the front and center of global economic decision-making -- to give more nations a leadership role in managing the international economy , including australia . and together , we saved the world economy from a depression . and now , our urgent challenge is to create the growth that puts people to work .
nor does this day represent the end of the work that faces our country . the work of revitalizing our economy goes on . the work of promoting private sector job creation goes on . the work of putting american families ’ dreams back within reach goes on . and we march on , with renewed confidence , energized by this victory on their behalf .
when a resurgent taliban threatened to give al qaeda more space to plot against us , the additional forces i ordered to afghanistan went on the offensive -- taking the fight to the taliban and pushing them out of their safe havens , allowing afghans to reclaim their communities and training afghan forces . and a few months ago , our troops achieved our greatest victory yet in the fight against those who attacked us on 9/11 -- delivering justice to osama bin laden in one of the greatest intelligence and military operations in american history .
you know what , let me set the record straight . i tease joe sometimes , but he has been at my side for seven years now . i love that man . he 's not just a great vice president , he is a great friend . we 've gotten so close , in some places in indiana , they wo n't serve us pizza anymore .
let 's resist the temptation to fall back on the same partisanship and pettiness and immaturity that has poisoned our politics for so long let 's remember that it was a man from this state who first carried the banner of the republican party to the white house , a party founded on the values of self-reliance and individual liberty and national unity . those are values that we all share . and while the democratic party has won a great victory tonight , we do so with a measure of humility and determination to heal the divides that have held back our progress . as lincoln said to a nation far more divided than ours : `` we are not enemies but friends ... . '' `` though passion may have strained , it must not break our bonds of affection . `` ¹
and today , america ’ s relationship with the region is stronger than ever . i ’ m proud to be the first american president to meet regularly with all 10 asean leaders . i will continue to do so until i am no longer president .
before i go any further , i want to say that our thoughts and prayers are with all of those indonesians who are affected by the recent tsunami and the volcanic eruptions -- particularly those who ’ ve lost loved ones , and those who ’ ve been displaced . and i want you all to know that as always , the united states stands with indonesia in responding to natural disasters , and we are pleased to be able to help as needed . as neighbors help neighbors and families take in the displaced , i know that the strength and the resilience of the indonesian people will pull you through once more .
i was proud to welcome president aquino to the white house two years ago , and since then we ’ ve worked to deepen our cooperation and to modernize our alliances . our partnership reflects an important filipino concept -- bayanihan -- the idea that we have to work together to accomplish things that we couldn ’ t achieve on our own .
well , we ’ ve got to have that same kind of distribution network when it comes to our renewable energy sources so that when you are converting to a different kind of car that runs on a different kind of energy , you ’ re going to be able to have that same convenience .
now , to help businesses operate at less cost , the energy department will develop new manufacturing processes and materials that use half as much energy . that will free up more money for companies to hire new workers or buy new equipment .
those are the victories they won , with iron wills and hope in their hearts . that is the transformation that they wrought , with each step of their well-worn shoes . that ’ s the debt that i and millions of americans owe those maids , those laborers , those porters , those secretaries ; folks who could have run a company maybe if they had ever had a chance ; those white students who put themselves in harm ’ s way , even though they did n't have ; those japanese americans who recalled their own internment ; those jewish americans who had survived the holocaust ; people who could have given up and given in , but kept on keeping on , knowing that “ weeping may endure for a night , but joy cometh in the morning . ”
but in this tough economy , far too many of our veterans are still unemployed . that ’ s why i ’ ve proposed a comprehensive initiative to make sure we ’ re tapping the incredible talents of our veterans . and it ’ s got two main parts .
then there ’ s medicare . because health care costs keep rising and the baby boom generation is retiring , medicare , we all know , is one of the biggest drivers of our long-term deficit . that ’ s a challenge we have to meet by bringing down the cost of health care overall so that seniors and taxpayers can share in the savings .
of course , even with aggressive steps on my part , administrative action alone will not adequately address the problem . the reforms that will do the most to strengthen our businesses , our workers , and our entire economy will still require an act of congress . and i repeat : these are reforms that already enjoy the wide support of the american people . it ’ s very rare where you get labor , business , evangelicals , law enforcement all agreeing on what needs to be done . and at some point , that should be enough . normally , that is enough . the point of public service is to solve public problems . and those of us who have the privilege to serve have a responsibility to do everything in our power to keep americans safe and to keep the doors of opportunity open .
more broadly , the united nations in iraq is working urgently to help respond to the needs of those iraqis fleeing from areas under threat . the u.n. security council has called on the international community to do everything it can to provide food , water and shelter . and in my calls with allies and partners around the world , i ’ ll continue to urge them to join us in this humanitarian effort .
now , finally , as one of the largest purchasers of goods and services in the world , the united states government will lead by example . we ’ ve already taken steps to make sure our contractors do not engage in forced labor . and today we ’ re going to go further . i ’ ve signed a new executive order that raises the bar . it ’ s specific about the prohibitions . it does more to protect workers . it ensures stronger compliance . in short , we ’ re making clear that american tax dollars must never , ever be used to support the trafficking of human beings . we will have zero tolerance . we mean what we say . we will enforce it .
small business , infrastructure , clean energy -- these are areas in which we can put americans to work while putting our nation on a sturdier economic footing . that foundation for sustained economic growth -- that must be our continuing focus and our ultimate goal .
the fact is , a growing number of palestinians live west of the jordan river . technology will make it harder for israel to defend itself . a region undergoing profound change will lead to populism in which millions of people -- not just one or two leaders -- must believe peace is possible . the international community is tired of an endless process that never produces an outcome . the dream of a jewish and democratic state can not be fulfilled with permanent occupation .
there are folks like joe , who just told us his story . when joe lost his job , he decided to take advantage of assistance for displaced workers . he earned his associate degree here at macomb , and with a pretty impressive gpa , i might add . and with the help of that degree , joe found a new job , working for the new henry ford west bloomfield hospital as a maintenance mechanic , using the skills he learned here and the talents that he brought to make a fresh start .
and i ’ m determined to ensure that it ’ s safe . so in light of what ’ s happened in japan , i ’ ve requested a comprehensive safety review by the nuclear regulatory commission to make sure that all of our existing nuclear energy facilities are safe . and we ’ re going incorporate those conclusions and lessons from japan in design and the building of the next generation of plants . but we can ’ t simply take it off the table .
with the time i have left -- and i know it ’ s a little wet , but the superintendent told me that marines and folks in the navy do n't mind a little water .
`` my recovery has not been easy , '' he says . `` nothing in life that 's worth anything is easy . '' cory is here tonight . and like the army he loves , like the america he serves , sergeant first class cory remsburg never gives up , and he does not quit .
some of what ’ s broken has to do with the way congress does its business these days . a simple majority is no longer enough to get anything -- even routine business -- passed through the senate . neither party has been blameless in these tactics . now both parties should put an end to it . for starters , i ask the senate to pass a simple rule that all judicial and public service nominations receive a simple up or down vote within 90 days .
but even as we recall man ’ s capacity for evil , auschwitz also tells another story -- of man ’ s capacity for good : the small acts of compassion -- the sharing of some bread that kept a child alive ; the great acts of resistance that blew up the crematorium and tried to stop the slaughter ; the polish rescuers ; and those who earned their place forever in the righteous among the nations .
i know it can be tempting to turn inward , and i understand how many people and nations have been left behind by the global economy . and that 's why the united states is leading an effort to reach out to people around the world who are suffering , to provide them immediate assistance and to extend support for food security that will help them lift themselves out of poverty .
my budget does not attempt to solve every problem or address every issue . it reflects the stark reality of what we ’ ve inherited – a trillion dollar deficit , a financial crisis , and a costly recession .
so that does n't excuse the fact that they just do n't work . but i think it ’ s fair to say that , no , garrett -- major , we would not have rolled out something knowing very well that it wasn ’ t going to work the way it was supposed , given all the scrutiny that we knew was going to be on the website .
for the truth is none of us can know exactly what triggered this vicious attack . none of us can know with any certainty what might have stopped these shots from being fired , or what thoughts lurked in the inner recesses of a violent man ’ s mind . yes , we have to examine all the facts behind this tragedy . we can not and will not be passive in the face of such violence . we should be willing to challenge old assumptions in order to lessen the prospects of such violence in the future . but what we can not do is use this tragedy as one more occasion to turn on each other . that we can not do . that we can not do .
in keeping with the inter-american democratic charter , we continue to stand up strongly for democracy and human rights . this was the first summit of the americas to include a formal role for civil society . as i said at yesterday ’ s forum , the united states will continue to deepen our support for civil society groups across the americas and around the world . i ’ m pleased that there was widespread agreement among the nations here that civil society groups have a permanent role in future summits . and the united states will support this work through the new innovation center we ’ re creating to empower civil society groups across latin america .
then , as the baby boomers start to retire in greater numbers and health care costs continue to rise , the situation will get even worse . by 2025 , the amount of taxes we currently pay will only be enough to finance our health care programs -- medicare and medicaid -- social security , and the interest we owe on our debt . that ’ s it . every other national priority -– education , transportation , even our national security -– will have to be paid for with borrowed money .
i think of lauren manning , the 9/11 survivor who had severe burns over 80 percent of her body , who said , “ that ’ s my reality . i put a band-aid on it , literally , and i move on . ”
jeff mason . question : thank you , mr. president . today 's fix that you just announced leaves it up to state insurance commissioners and insurance companies to ultimately decide whether to allow old policies to be renewed for a year . how confident are you that they will do that ? and secondly , how concerned are you that this flawed rollout may hurt democrats ' chances in next year 's midterm elections , and your ability to advance other priorities such as immigration reform ?
together , we ’ ve also worked to end a decade of war . five years ago , nearly 180,000 americans were serving in harm ’ s way , and the war in iraq was the dominant issue in our relationship with the rest of the world . today , all of our troops have left iraq . next year , an international coalition will end its war in afghanistan , having achieved its mission of dismantling the core of al qaeda that attacked us on 9/11 .
once states set up these health insurance marketplaces , known as exchanges , insurance companies will no longer be able to discriminate against any american with a preexisting health condition . they won ’ t be able to charge you more just because you ’ re a woman . they won ’ t be able to bill you into bankruptcy . if you ’ re sick , you ’ ll finally have the same chance to get quality , affordable health care as everyone else . and if you can ’ t afford the premiums , you 'll receive a credit that helps pay for it .
and while year after year , those who oppose even modest gun safety measures have threatened to defund scientific or medical research into the causes of gun violence , i will direct the centers for disease control to go ahead and study the best ways to reduce it -- and congress should fund research into the effects that violent video games have on young minds . we do n't benefit from ignorance . we do n't benefit from not knowing the science of this epidemic of violence .
the fact is this crisis has left a huge deficit of trust between main street and wall street . and major banks that were rescued by the taxpayers have an obligation to go the extra mile in helping to close that deficit of trust . at minimum , they should be remedying past mortgage abuses that led to the financial crisis . they should be working to keep responsible homeowners in their home . we ’ re going to keep pushing them to provide more time for unemployed homeowners to look for work without having to worry about immediately losing their house .
so we ’ re making progress , and i ’ ve recently announced new actions to keep up this momentum . we ’ ve called for a single national standard so americans know within 30 days if your information has been stolen . this month , we ’ ll be proposing legislation that we call a consumer privacy bill of rights to give americans some baseline protections , like the right to decide what personal data companies collect from you , and the right to know how companies are using that information . we ’ ve proposed the student digital privacy act , which is modeled on the landmark law here in california -- because today ’ s amazing educational technologies should be used to teach our students and not collect data for marketing to students .
unfortunately , faced with an uncertain threat , our government made a series of hasty decisions . i believe that many of these decisions were motivated by a sincere desire to protect the american people . but i also believe that all too often our government made decisions based on fear rather than foresight ; that all too often our government trimmed facts and evidence to fit ideological predispositions . instead of strategically applying our power and our principles , too often we set those principles aside as luxuries that we could no longer afford . and during this season of fear , too many of us -- democrats and republicans , politicians , journalists , and citizens -- fell silent .
fortunately , by focusing on facts and specifics rather than speculation and hypotheticals , this review process has given me -- and hopefully the american people -- some clear direction for change . and today , i can announce a series of concrete and substantial reforms that my administration intends to adopt administratively or will seek to codify with congress .
and while the senate still has a last round of improvements to make on this historic legislation -- and these are improvements i ’ m confident they will make swiftly -- the bill i ’ m signing will set in motion reforms that generations of americans have fought for , and marched for , and hungered to see .
or , we can say that this time will be different -- that this time we will not let terror , or turbulence , or posturing , or petty politics stand in the way . this time , we will think not of ourselves , but of the young girl in gaza who wants to have no ceiling on her dreams , or the young boy in sderot who wants to sleep without the nightmare of rocket fire .
above all , i will send a clear message : we will not repeat the mistake of the past , when we turned our back on afghanistan following soviet withdrawal . as 9/11 showed us , the security of afghanistan and america is shared . and today , that security is most threatened by the al qaeda and taliban sanctuary in the tribal regions of northwestpakistan .
but even though he ’ s worried about our economy and the state of our politics -- here ’ s what he said -- he said , “ i still believe . i believe in that great country that my grandfather told me about .
but the non-partisan congressional watchdogs at the cbo estimate that health care tax credits will be worth nearly $ 40 billion for small businesses over the next decade -- $ 40 billion , directly to small businesses who are doing the right thing by their employees .
that is what forged our bond in the fire of war -- a bond made manifest by the friendship between two of our greatest leaders . churchill and roosevelt had their differences . they were keen observers of each other ’ s blind spots and shortcomings , if not always their own , and they were hard-headed about their ability to remake the world . but what joined the fates of these two men at that particular moment in history was not simply a shared interest in victory on the battlefield . it was a shared belief in the ultimate triumph of human freedom and human dignity -- a conviction that we have a say in how this story ends .
and because our markets and financial systems have evolved since then , we ’ re now putting in place new rules and safeguards to protect the american people now , this notion -- this notion , class , hasn ’ t always been partisan . it was the first republican president , abraham lincoln , who said the role of government is to do for the people what they can not do better for themselves .
so i thank you for your service and the contributions that you make . and i want to close by recognizing not only your service , but also to remember those that have been lost as a consequence of the extraordinary reporting that they ’ ve done over recent weeks . they help , too , to defend our freedoms and allow democracy to flourish .
and in this situation , the failure of house republicans to pass a darn bill is bad for our security , it ’ s bad for our economy , and it ’ s bad for our future
thank you very much , everybody . and happy new year . good morning . it is an honor for me to join this distinguished group of leaders from nations around the world . we come here in copenhagen because climate change poses a grave and growing danger to our people . all of you would not be here unless you -- like me -- were convinced that this danger is real . this is not fiction , it is science . unchecked , climate change will pose unacceptable risks to our security , our economies , and our planet . this much we know .
i want to work with both parties to pass a more permanent legislative solution . and the day i sign that bill into law , the actions i take will no longer be necessary . meanwhile , don ’ t let a disagreement over a single issue be a dealbreaker on every issue . that ’ s not how our democracy works , and congress certainly shouldn ’ t shut down our government again just because we disagree on this . americans are tired of gridlock . what our country needs from us right now is a common purpose -- a higher purpose .
think of what 's possible today that was unthinkable two decades ago . a young woman with an internet connection in bangalore , india can compete with anybody anywhere in the world . an entrepreneur with a start-up company in beijing can take his business global . an nes professor in moscow can collaborate with colleagues at harvard or stanford . that 's good for all of us , because when prosperity is created in india , that 's a new market for our goods ; when new ideas take hold in china , that pushes our businesses to innovate ; when new connections are forged among people , all of us are enriched .
in short , america 's economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on cybersecurity . and this is also a matter of public safety and national security . we count on computer networks to deliver our oil and gas , our power and our water . we rely on them for public transportation and air traffic control . yet we know that cyber intruders have probed our electrical grid and that in other countries cyber attacks have plunged entire cities into darkness .
michelle is not afraid to speak her mind , or tell me when i 'm wrong -- which happens frequently . and we have two beautiful daughters , so i 'm surrounded by smart , strong women .
but if you 're going into politics and public service , there ’ s only one good reason to do it , and that is because you want to help people . and you should know what it is that you stand for and what you believe in . it does n't mean that you won ’ t have to compromise . it does n't mean that you might not change your mind about an issue as you go forward and you learn more and you have more experience . but you should have something inside of you that says , these are the things that are really important to me that i will not compromise on , all right ?
it ’ s hard work that demands your constant attention and frequent sacrifice . and i promise you , michelle will tell you i ’ m not perfect . she ’ s got a long list of my imperfections . even now , i ’ m still practicing , i 'm still learning , still getting corrected in terms of how to be a fine husband and a good father . but i will tell you this : everything else is unfulfilled if we fail at family , if we fail at that responsibility .
indeed , over the past year , we 've taken the fight to al qaeda and its allies wherever they plot and train , be it in afghanistan and pakistan , in yemen and somalia , or in other countries around the world .
for nearly two decades , dr. regina benjamin has seen in a very personal way what is broken about our health care system . she 's seen an increasing number of patients who 've had health insurance their entire lives suddenly lose it because they lost their jobs or because it 's simply become too expensive . she 's been a relentless promoter of prevention and wellness programs , having treated too many costly and -- diseases and complications that did n't have to happen . and she 's witnessed the shortage of primary care physicians in the rural and underserved areas where she works .
years from now , when i think of the man we memorialize today , i ’ ll remember him as he was when i came to know him , his white hair full like a mane , his gait steadied with a cane .
what this plan will do is make the insurance you have work better for you . under this plan , it will be against the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition .
that ’ s how america was built . that ’ s why we ’ re the greatest nation on earth . that ’ s what our greatest companies understand . our success has never just been about survival of the fittest . it ’ s about building a nation where we ’ re all better off . we pull together . we pitch in . we do our part . we believe that hard work will pay off , that responsibility will be rewarded , and that our children will inherit a nation where those values live on .
across the region , we ’ re moving ahead with “ open skies ” agreements to bring our people and businesses closer together . we ’ re moving forward with our trans-pacific partnership -- which includes chile and peru -- to create new trade opportunities in the fast-growing markets of the asia-pacific . and as i ’ ve directed , my administration has intensified our efforts to move forward on trade agreements with panama and colombia , consistent with our values and with our interests .
so the fact is , we ’ re producing more oil right now than we have in eight years , and we ’ re importing less of it as well . for two years in a row , america has bought less oil from other countries than we produce here at home -- for the first time in over a decade .
now , if we ’ re honest with ourselves , we ’ ll admit that for too long , we have not always met these responsibilities -- as a government or as a people . i say this not to lay blame or look backwards , but because it is only by understanding how we arrived at this moment that we ’ ll be able to lift ourselves out of this predicament .
saturday will mark one year from the day that an election captivated the attention of the world -- an event that should have been remembered for how the iranian people participated with remarkable enthusiasm , but will instead be remembered for how the iranian government brutally suppressed dissent and murdered the innocent , including a young woman left to die in the street .
and i see this as just round one . when newtown happened , i met with these families and i spoke to the community , and i said , something must be different right now . we ’ re going to have to change . that 's what the whole country said . everybody talked about how we were going to change something to make sure this did n't happen again , just like everybody talked about how we needed to do something after aurora . everybody talked about we needed change something after tucson .
now , in a few weeks , i ’ m going to send to congress my plan for free community college . i hope that congress will come together to support it , because opening the doors of higher education shouldn ’ t be a democratic issue or a republican issue . this is an american issue .
we ’ ve got to lay out a path -- a process that includes passing a background check , paying taxes , paying a penalty , learning english , and then going to the back of the line , behind all the folks who are trying to come here legally . that 's only fair , right ?
so just as impressive as what you did was how you did it . it was a tribute to your perseverance , your relentless focus and determination over many years . for the fight against al qaeda did not begin on 9/11 . among you are veterans who ’ ve been pursuing these murderers for many years , even before they attacked our embassies in africa and struck the [ uss ] cole in yemen . among you are young men and women for whom 9/11 was a call to service . this fight has defined your generation . and on this wall are stars honoring all your colleagues and friends , more than a dozen who have given their lives in the fight against al qaeda and its violent allies .
i believe that those imperfections are not a reason to walk away from this institution -- they are a calling to redouble our efforts . the united nations can either be a place where we bicker about outdated grievances , or forge common ground ; a place where we focus on what drives us apart , or what brings us together ; a place where we indulge tyranny , or a source of moral authority . in short , the united nations can be an institution that is disconnected from what matters in the lives of our citizens , or it can be an indispensable factor in advancing the interests of the people we serve .
a serious plan doesn ’ t require us to balance our budget overnight –- in fact , economists think that with the economy just starting to grow again , we need a phased-in approach –- but it does require tough decisions and support from our leaders in both parties now . above all , it will require us to choose a vision of the america we want to see five years , 10 years , 20 years down the road .
we 're also going to keep faith with those who serve , by making sure our troops have the equipment and capabilities they need to succeed , and by prioritizing efforts that focus on wounded warriors , mental health and the well-being of our military families . and as our newest veterans rejoin civilian life , we 'll keep working to give our veterans the care , the benefits and job opportunities that they deserve and that they have earned .
and that ’ s why every president gains a greater appreciation for all of those who served before them ; for the leaders from both parties who 've taken on the momentous challenges and felt the enormous weight of the nation on their shoulders . and for me , that appreciation very much extends to president bush .
because throughout our history , what has distinguished us from all other nations is not just our wealth , it ’ s not just our power . it ’ s been our deep commitment to individual freedom and personal responsibility , but also our unshakeable commitment to one another -- a recognition that we share a future ; that we rise or fall together ; that we are part of a common enterprise that is greater , somehow , than the sum of its parts .
and , by the way , that 's what we should have been able to do in drafting the rules in the first place . so , again , these are two fumbles on something that -- on a big game , which -- but the game is not over .
even if that worked -- and it hasn ’ t for 50 years -- we know from hard-earned experience that countries are more likely to enjoy lasting transformation if their people are not subjected to chaos .
but even more than interests , we ’ re bound by shared values . in each other ’ s journey we see reflections of our own . colonists who broke free from empires . pioneers who opened new frontiers . citizens who have struggled to expand our nations ’ promise to all people -- men and women , white , black and brown . we ’ re people of faith who must remember that all of us -- especially the most fortunate among us -- must do our part , especially for the least among us . we ’ re citizens who know that ensuring that democracies deliver for our people must be the work of all .
tonight , i called president zardari , and my team has also spoken with their pakistani counterparts . they agree that this is a good and historic day for both of our nations . and going forward , it is essential that pakistan continue to join us in the fight against al qaeda and its affiliates .
it is unacceptable that almost seven years after nearly 3,000 americans were killed on our soil , the terrorists who attacked us on 9/11 are still at large . osama bin laden and ayman al-zawahari are recording messages to their followers and plotting more terror . the taliban controls parts of afghanistan . al qaida has an expanding base in pakistan that is probably no farther from their old afghan sanctuary than a train ride from washington to philadelphia . if another attack on our homeland comes , it will likely come from the same region where 9/11 was planned . and yet today , we have five times more troops in iraq than afghanistan .
the guards ridiculed his devotion to his savior and the almighty . they took his clothes and made him stand in the freezing cold for hours . yet , he never lost his faith . if anything , it only grew stronger . at night , he slipped into huts to lead prisoners in prayer , saying the rosary , administering the sacraments , offering three simple words : `` god bless you . '' one of them later said that with his very presence he could just for a moment turn a mud hut into a cathedral .
that is america 's interest , and i believe that it is russia 's interest as well i know that this future can seem distant . change is hard . in the words of that nes student back in 1993 , the real world is not so rational as on paper . but think of the change that has unfolded with the passing of time . one hundred years ago , a czar ruled russia , and europe was a place of empire . when i was born , segregation was still the law of the land in parts of america , and my father 's kenya was still a colony . when you were born , a school like this would have been impossible , and the internet was only known to a privileged few .
now , look , i have a reputation for giving cable a hard time , so let 's pick on politico for a while . you know , people attack politico for putting a new focus on trivial issues , political fodder , gossip sheet . that 's not fair . politico has been doing this for centuries now . just check out these headlines -- our researchers found these : `` japan surrenders -- where 's the bounce ? '' then there 's this one : `` lincoln saves union , but can he save house majority ? '' i do n't know if you can see , there 's a little portion there -- `` he 's lost the southern white vote . '' it 's an astute analysis there .
like any business , we 're also looking for ways to get more bang for our buck , by promoting innovation and cutting red tape . for example , we consolidate 38 separate education programs into 11. and last fall , we launched the `` save awards '' to solicit ideas from federal employees about how make government more efficient and more effective . i 'm proud to say that a number of these ideas -- like allowing social security appointments to be made online -- made it into our budget .
all of you -- every single young person here today -- possess something the generation before yours did not , and that is an example to follow . when those who took a chance on peace got started , they didn ’ t have a successful model to emulate . they didn ’ t know how it would work . but they took a chance . and so far , it has succeeded . and the first steps are the hardest and requires the most courage . the rest , now , is up to you .
thanks very much . good morning , everybody . yesterday , malaysian airlines flight mh17 took off from amsterdam and was shot down over ukraine near the russian border . nearly 300 innocent lives were taken -- men , women , children , infants -- who had nothing to do with the crisis in ukraine . their deaths are an outrage of unspeakable proportions .
that ’ s what americans have done for over 200 years : reinvented ourselves . and to spur on more success stories like the allen brothers , we ’ ve begun to reinvent our energy policy . we ’ re not just handing out money . we ’ re issuing a challenge . we ’ re telling america ’ s scientists and engineers that if they assemble teams of the best minds in their fields , and focus on the hardest problems in clean energy , we ’ ll fund the apollo projects of our time .
twenty-first century businesses , including small businesses , need to sell more american products overseas . today , our businesses export more than ever , and exporters tend to pay their workers higher wages . but as we speak , china wants to write the rules for the world ’ s fastest-growing region . that would put our workers and our businesses at a disadvantage . why would we let that happen ? we should write those rules . we should level the playing field . that ’ s why i ’ m asking both parties to give me trade promotion authority to protect american workers , with strong new trade deals from asia to europe that aren ’ t just free , but are also fair . it ’ s the right thing to do .
and this includes efforts to resolve sectarian tensions that continue to surface in places like iraq , bahrain and syria . we understand such longstanding issues can not be solved by outsiders ; they must be addressed by muslim communities themselves . but we ’ ve seen grinding conflicts come to an end before -- most recently in northern ireland , where catholics and protestants finally recognized that an endless cycle of conflict was causing both communities to fall behind a fast-moving world . and so we believe those same sectarian conflicts can be overcome in the middle east and north africa .
and it is american diplomacy , backed by pressure , that has halted the progress of iran 's nuclear program -- and rolled parts of that program back -- for the very first time in a decade . as we gather here tonight , iran has begun to eliminate its stockpile of higher levels of enriched uranium . it is not installing advanced centrifuges . unprecedented inspections help the world verify , every day , that iran is not building a bomb . and with our allies and partners , we 're engaged in negotiations to see if we can peacefully achieve a goal we all share : preventing iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon .
of course , recognizing our common humanity is only the beginning of our task . words alone can not meet the needs of our people . these needs will be met only if we act boldly in the years ahead , and if we understand that the challenges we face are shared and our failure to meet them will hurt us all .
in order to meet this challenge , i welcome any idea , from democrats and republicans . what i will not welcome -- what i reject -- is the same old grandstanding when the cameras are on , and the same irresponsible budget policies when the cameras are off . it 's time to hold washington to the same standards families and businesses hold themselves . it 's time to save what we can , spend what we must , and live within our means once again .
i wish i had been wrong . i wish we weren ’ t here talking about this at the beginning of the war ’ s fifth year -- because the consequences of this war have been profound . and the sacrifices have been immeasurable .
plots against our homeland , plots against our allies , plots against the afghan and pakistani people are taking place as we speak right here . and if this region slides backwards , if the taliban retakes this country and al qaeda can operate with impunity , then more american lives will be at stake .
because we hold our leaders accountable , and insist on a free press and independent judiciary . because we address our differences in the open space of democracy -- with respect for the rule of law ; with a place for people of every race and every religion ; and with an unyielding belief in the ability of individual men and women to change their communities and their circumstances and their countries for the better
and in the meantime , you can bypass the website and apply by phone or in person . so don ’ t let problems with the website deter you from signing up , or signing your family up , or showing your friends how to sign up , because it is worth it . it will save you money . if you do n't have health insurance , if you ’ ve got a preexisting condition , it will save you money and it will give you the security that your family needs .
the truth is , being successful is hard . you wo n't love every subject that you study . you wo n't click with every teacher that you have . not every homework assignment will seem completely relevant to your life right at this minute . and you wo n't necessarily succeed at everything the first time you try .
the bottom line is this : every decision we make is based on a single criterion -– what ’ s going to best protect and make whole the people and the ecosystems of the gulf .
so let 's be clear . senator mccain would have our troops continue to fight tour after tour of duty , and our taxpayers keep spending $ 10 billion a month indefinitely ; i want iraqis to take responsibility for their own future , and to reach the political accommodation necessary for long-term stability . that 's victory . that 's success . that 's what 's best for iraq , that 's what 's best for america , and that 's why i will end this war as president .
he would endure a brutal imprisonment that began in the time of kennedy and khrushchev , and reached the final days of the cold war . emerging from prison , without the force of arms , he would -- like abraham lincoln -- hold his country together when it threatened to break apart .
to begin with , our borders have been porous for decades . obviously , the problem is greatest along our southern border , but it ’ s not restricted to that part of the country . in fact , because we don ’ t do a very good job of tracking who comes in and out of the country as visitors , large numbers avoid immigration laws simply by overstaying their visas .
we are sojourner truth and fannie lou hamer , women who could do as much as any man and then some . and we ’ re susan b. anthony , who shook the system until the law reflected that truth . that is our character .
i understand that every member of congress has ideas about how to spend money . many of these projects are worthy . they benefit local communities . but this emergency legislation must not be the vehicle for those aspirations .
on monday morning , these 12 men and women woke up like they did every day . they left home and they headed off to work . gerald read 's wife cathy said , `` see you tonight for dinner . '' and john johnson looked at his wife judy and said what he always said whenever they parted , `` goodbye beautiful . i love you so much . ''
but over time , that engine began to stall -- and a lot of folks here saw it -- that bargain began to fray . technology made some jobs obsolete . global competition sent a lot of jobs overseas . it became harder for unions to fight for the middle class . washington doled out bigger tax cuts to the very wealthy and smaller minimum wage increases for the working poor .
it 's a story written by men like anthony ruggiero , an army ranger who saw half the men on his landing craft drown when it was hit by shellfire just a thousand yards off this beach . he spent three hours in freezing water , and was one of only 90 rangers to survive out of the 225 who were sent to scale the cliffs .
as they said , nobody could honestly claim that the package they put together infringed on our second amendment rights . all it did was extend the same background check rules that already apply to guns purchased from a dealer to guns purchased at gun shows or over the internet . so 60 percent of guns are already purchased through a background check system ; this would have covered a lot of the guns that are currently outside that system .
and i know he will do so once again as america ’ s next treasury secretary , the chief economic spokesman for my administration now , like tim , larry summers also brings a singular combination of skill , intellect , and experience to the role he will play in our administration . as undersecretary , deputy secretary , and then secretary of the treasury , larry helped guide us through several major international financial crises and was a central architect of the policies that led to the longest economic expansion in american history , with record surpluses , rising family incomes , and more than 20 million new jobs . he also championed a range of measures , from tax credits to enhanced lending programs to consumer financial protections , that greatly benefited middle-income families .
tim will waste no time getting up to speed . he will start his first day on the job with a unique insight into the failures of today ’ s markets and a clear vision of the steps we must take to revive them .
we 're already taking important steps to build this foundation . yesterday , president medvedev and i made progress on negotiating a new treaty that will substantially reduce our warheads and delivery systems . we renewed our commitment to clean , safe and peaceful nuclear energy , which must be a right for all nations that live up to their responsibilities under the npt . and we agreed to increase cooperation on nuclear security , which is essential to achieving the goal of securing all vulnerable nuclear material within four years .
and this truth is more pronounced given the changes sweeping the arab world . i understand that with the uncertainty in the region -- people in the streets , changes in leadership , the rise of non-secular parties in politics -- it 's tempting to turn inward , because the situation outside of israel seems so chaotic . but this is precisely the time to respond to the wave of revolution with a resolve and commitment for peace . because as more governments respond to popular will , the days when israel could seek peace simply with a handful of autocratic leaders , those days are over . peace will have to be made among peoples , not just governments .
so it 's not hard for us , then , to imagine that moment . we can imagine folks coming to this church , happy about the boycott being over . we can also imagine them , though , coming here concerned about their future , sometimes second-guessing strategy , maybe fighting off some creeping doubts , perhaps despairing about whether the movement in which they had placed so many of their hopes -- a movement in which they believed so deeply -- could actually deliver on its promise .
but like other early giants of the anc -- the sisulus and tambos -- madiba disciplined his anger and channeled his desire to fight into organization , and platforms , and strategies for action , so men and women could stand up for their god-given dignity . moreover , he accepted the consequences of his actions , knowing that standing up to powerful interests and injustice carries a price :
some of you know i get 10 letters a day that i read out of the 40,000 that we receive . started reading some of the ones that i got this morning . “ dear president obama , my daughter , a wonderful person , lost her job . she has no health insurance . she had a blood clot in her brain . she ’ s now disabled , can ’ t get care. ” “ dear president obama , i don ’ t yet qualify for medicare . cobra is about to run out . i am desperate , do n't know what to do . ”
he had the confidence to know that the purpose and pragmatism of the american people could outlast any foe . today , the dangers and divisions that came with the dawn of the cold war have receded .
that history helps explain the wealth and income gap between blacks and whites and the concentrated pockets of poverty that persist in so many of today 's urban and rural communities . a lack of economic opportunity among black men and the shame and frustration that came from not being able to provide for one 's family contributed to the erosion of black families , a problem that welfare policies for many years may have worsened .
yesterday , i put forward a new development policy that will pursue these goals , recognizing that dignity is a human right and global development is in our common interest . america will partner with nations that offer their people a path out of poverty . and together , we must unleash growth that powers by individuals and emerging markets in all parts of the globe .
i ’ m sure that many of you who are parents here had the same reaction that i did when i heard this news . my daughters go to the movies . what if malia and sasha had been at the theater , as so many of our kids do every day ? michelle and i will be fortunate enough to hug our girls a little tighter tonight , and i ’ m sure you will do the same with your children . but for those parents who may not be so lucky , we have to embrace them and let them know we will be there for them as a nation .
but most of all , i want to thank those of you who found the strength to come back again , so many years later , despite the horror you saw here , the suffering you endured here , and the loved ones you lost here . those of us who did not live through those dark days will never truly understand what it means to have hate literally etched into your arms . but we understand the message that you carry in your hearts .
now , let me be clear : just as we can not solve every problem in the world , the united states has not and will not seek to dictate the outcome of democratic transitions abroad . we do not expect other nations to agree with us on every issue , nor do we assume that the violence of the past weeks or the hateful speech by some individuals represent the views of the overwhelming majority of muslims , any more than the views of the people who produced this video represents those of americans . however , i do believe that it is the obligation of all leaders in all countries to speak out forcefully against violence and extremism .
president obama : okay , on the website , i was not informed directly that the website would not be working the way it was supposed to . had i been informed , i wouldn ’ t be going out saying , boy , this is going to be great .
now , over the past four years , we ’ ve tried to patch up some of the worst cracks in the system . we made border security a top priority . today , we have twice as many border patrol agents as we did in 2004. we have more boots on the ground along our southern border than at any time in our history . and in part , by using technology more effectively , illegal crossings are near their lowest level in decades .
vielen dank . god bless you . god bless the peoples of germany . and god bless the united states of america . thank you very much . thank you . thank you so much . thank you very much . please be seated .
now , i recognize that ’ s a cheap applause line when you 're giving a commencement at barnard . it ’ s the easy thing to say . but it ’ s true . it is -- in part , it is simple math . today , women are not just half this country ; you ’ re half its workforce . more and more women are out-earning their husbands . you ’ re more than half of our college graduates , and master ’ s graduates , and phds . so you ’ ve got us outnumbered .
chancellor merkel and i have just finished our tour here at buchenwald . i want to thank dr. volkhard knigge , who gave an outstanding account of what we were witnessing . i am particularly grateful to be accompanied by my friend elie wiesel , as well as mr. bertrand herz , both of whom are survivors of this place .
and finally , the arab states must recognize that the arab peace initiative was an important beginning , but not the end of their responsibilities . the arab-israeli conflict should no longer be used to distract the people of arab nations from other problems . instead , it must be a cause for action to help the palestinian people develop the institutions that will sustain their state , to recognize israel 's legitimacy , and to choose progress over a self-defeating focus on the past .
we 're working to redesign high schools and partner them with colleges and employers that offer the real-world education and hands-on training that can lead directly to a job and career . we 're shaking up our system of higher education to give parents more information , and colleges more incentives to offer better value , so that no middle-class kid is priced out of a college education . we 're offering millions the opportunity to cap their monthly student loan payments to ten percent of their income , and i want to work with congress to see how we can help even more americans who feel trapped by student loan debt . and i 'm reaching out to some of america 's leading foundations and corporations on a new initiative to help more young men of color facing tough odds stay on track and reach their full potential .
just as significantly , the convulsions in the middle east and north africa have laid bare deep divisions within societies , as an old order is upended and people grapple with what comes next . peaceful movements have too often been answered by violence -- from those resisting change and from extremists trying to hijack change . sectarian conflict has reemerged . and the potential spread of weapons of mass destruction continues to cast a shadow over the pursuit of peace .
and by the way , given all the rhetoric lately -- it is political season -- let ’ s also set the record straight on the budget . those big , across-the-board cuts , including defense , that congress said would occur next year if they couldn ’ t reach a deal to reduce the deficit ? let ’ s understand , first of all , there ’ s no reason that should happen , because people in congress ought to be able to come together and agree on a plan , a balanced approach that reduces the deficit and keeps our military strong . it should be done .
q : what about the impact on the election , sir ? president obama : i am not worried at this point about the impact on the election . i ’ m worried about the impact on families , and i ’ m worried about the impact on our first responders . i ’ m worried about the impact on our economy and on transportation .
that is an achievable goal if we pursue a comprehensive plan to press the iraqis stand up to achieve that success , i will give our military a new mission on my first day in office : ending this war . let me be clear : we must be as careful getting out of iraq as we were careless getting in . we can safely redeploy our combat brigades at a pace that would remove them in 16 months . that would be the summer of 2010 -- one year after iraqi security forces will be prepared to stand up ; two years from now , and more than seven years after the war began . after this redeployment , we 'll keep a residual force to perform specific missions in iraq : targeting any remnants of al qaida ; protecting our service members and diplomats ; and training and supporting iraq 's security forces , so long as the iraqis make political progress .
and i noticed that there ’ s been a lot of friendly advice offered all across town . mitch mcconnell , john boehner , karl rove -- they ’ re all warning you of the horrendous impact if you support this legislation . now , it could be that they are suddenly having a change of heart and they are deeply concerned about their democratic friends . they are giving you the best possible advice in order to assure that nancy pelosi remains speaker and harry reid remains leader and that all of you keep your seats . that ’ s a possibility .
so what did we do ? what is the essence of this legislation ? number one , this is the toughest insurance reforms in history . we are making sure that the system of private insurance works for ordinary families .
in south carolina , where the confederate flag still flies , we built a powerful coalition of african americans and white americans . this is not to say that race has not been an issue in this campaign .
the president : well , as i said , the vice president and a number of members of my cabinet went through a very thorough process over the last month , meeting with a lot of stakeholders in this including the nra , listened to proposals from all quarters , and they ’ ve presented me now with a list of sensible , common-sense steps that can be taken to make sure that the kinds of violence we saw at newtown does n't happen again .
and i wish i could say that this perseverance came from some innate toughness in me . but the truth is , it was learned . i got it from watching the people who raised me . more specifically , i got it from watching the women who shaped my life .
i see it in the deepening of mexico ’ s democracy , citizens who are standing up and saying that violence and impunity is not acceptable ; a courageous press that ’ s working to hold leaders accountable ; a robust civil society , including brave defenders of human rights who demand dignity and rule of law . you have political parties that are competing vigorously , but also transferring power peacefully , and forging compromise . and that 's all a sign of the extraordinary progress that 's taken place here in mexico .
indeed , all of us on this stage -- every single one of us -- have a profound responsibility to every soldier , sailor , airman , marine and coast guardsman who puts their life on the line for america . we owe them a strategy with well-defined goals ; to only send them into harm 's way when it 's absolutely necessary ; to give them the equipment and the support that they need to get the job done ; and to care for them and their families when they come home . that is our solemn obligation .
over successive generations , you ’ ve welcomed again and again new arrivals to our shores -- immigrants who constantly reinvigorated this city and this commonwealth and our nation . every fall , you welcome students from all across america and all across the globe , and every spring you graduate them back into the world -- a boston diaspora that excels in every field of human endeavor . year after year , you welcome the greatest talents in the arts and science , research -- you welcome them to your concert halls and your hospitals and your laboratories to exchange ideas and insights that draw this world together .
because we ’ re leading around the world , people have a new attitude toward america . there ’ s more confidence in our leadership . we see it everywhere we go . we saw it as grateful libyans waved american flags . we see it across the globe -- when people are asked , which country do you admire the most , one nation comes out on top -- the united states of america .
it 's a faith in other people , and it 's what brought me here today we have the power to make the world we seek , but only if we have the courage to make a new beginning , keeping in mind what has been written .
can you blame them for feeling a little cynical ? the greatest blow to our confidence in our economy last year didn ’ t come from events beyond our control . it came from a debate in washington over whether the united states would pay its bills or not . who benefited from that fiasco ?
we gather here , on a sabbath , during a time of profound difficulty for our nation and for our world . in such a time , it soothes the soul to seek out the divine in a spirit of prayer ; to seek solace among a community of believers . but we are not here just to ask the lord for his blessing . we are n't here just to interpret his scripture . we 're also here to call on the memory of one of his noble servants , the reverend dr. martin luther king , jr .
now , we did n't have to completely reinvent the wheel on this proposal . many states have proposed similar legislation . california just passed a landmark law . and i hope congress joins us in this national movement to protect the privacy of our children .
thank you , guys . president obama : hello cape town ! audience : hello ! president obama : thobela . molweni . sanibona . dumelang . ndaa . reperile . audience : reperile !
for all of our power , america is strongest when we act alongside strong partners . we faced down fascism with the greatest war-time alliance the world has ever known . we stood shoulder to shoulder with our nato allies against the soviet threat , and paid a far smaller price for the first gulf war because we acted together with a broad coalition . we helped create the united nations -- not to constrain america 's influence , but to amplify it by advancing our values .
given the importance of this issue , i have instructed my negotiators to fully brief congress and the american people on the substance of the deal , and i welcome a robust debate in the weeks and months to come . i am confident that we can show that this deal is good for the security of the united states , for our allies , and for the world .
now , yes , pursuing this new strategy will require that we revise the old strategy . in part , this is because the old strategy -- including the constellation program -- was not fulfilling its promise in many ways . that ’ s not just my assessment ; that ’ s also the assessment of a panel of respected non-partisan experts charged with looking at these issues closely . now , despite this , some have had harsh words for the decisions we ’ ve made , including some individuals who i ’ ve got enormous respect and admiration for .
and i ’ m proud to announce that the department of defense , working with us , the world ’ s largest consumer of energy , will make one of the largest commitments to clean energy in history -- with the navy purchasing enough capacity to power a quarter of a million homes a year
question : the veterans affairs -- president obama : you got me all worked up on the other one . the moment we heard about the allegations around these 40 individuals who had died in phoenix , i immediately ordered the secretary of veterans affairs , general shinseki , to investigate . we also have an ig investigation taking place . and so we take the allegations very seriously .
our goal is to make sure that international rules and norms are respected , and that includes in the area of maritime disputes . we do not have claims in this area territorially . we ’ re an asia pacific nation and our primary interest is the peaceful resolution of conflict , the freedom of navigation that allows for continued progress and prosperity . and we don ’ t even take a specific position on the disputes between nations .
as we keep our own commitments , we must hold other nations accountable for theirs . whether america or russia , neither of us would benefit from a nuclear arms race in east asia or the middle east . that 's why we should be united in opposing north korea 's efforts to become a nuclear power , and opposing iran 's efforts to acquire a nuclear weapon . and i 'm pleased that president medvedev and i agreed upon a joint threat assessment of the ballistic challenges -- ballistic missile challenges of the 21st century , including from iran and north korea .
it ’ s the reason why we are moving in the direction of normalizing relations with cuba . the nuclear deal that we ’ re trying to negotiate with iran . our efforts to help encourage democracy in myanmar
you see , this isn ’ t the first time america has faced this choice . at the turn of the last century , when a nation of farmers was transitioning to become the world ’ s industrial giant , we had to decide : would we settle for a country where most of the new railroads and factories were being controlled by a few giant monopolies that kept prices high and wages low ? would we allow our citizens and even our children to work ungodly hours in conditions that were unsafe and unsanitary ? would we restrict education to the privileged few ? because there were people who thought massive inequality and exploitation of people was just the price you pay for progress .
so i know the good , and optimistic , and big-hearted generosity of the american people who every day live the idea that we are our brother ’ s keeper and our sister ’ s keeper . and i know they expect those of us who serve here to set a better example .
as i said in oslo , it 's telling when governments fear the aspirations [ of ] their own people more than the power of any other nation . along with all free nations , the united states stands with those who seek their universal rights . we call upon the iranian government to abide by the international obligations that it has to respect the rights of its own people .
the father who loved surfing with his son ; the platoon leader who led a dash through the gunfire to that post to reinforce his men -- 1st lieutenant jonathan brostrom . an immigrant from mexico who became a proud american soldier , on his third tour , whose final thoughts were of his family and his beloved wife , lesly -- sergeant israel garcia .
now , ultimately , it is up to the israelis and palestinians to take action . no peace can be imposed upon them -- not by the united states ; not by anybody else . but endless delay won ’ t make the problem go away . what america and the international community can do is to state frankly what everyone knows -- a lasting peace will involve two states for two peoples : israel as a jewish state and the homeland for the jewish people , and the state of palestine as the homeland for the palestinian people , each state enjoying self-determination , mutual recognition , and peace .
we do n't know where this kind of experiment will lead , but that 's exactly why we ought to try it because i think there 's a possibility that online education can provide especially for people who are already in the workforce and want to retrain the chance to upgrade their skills without having to quit their job
too often , the source of tragedy , the source of conflict involves the choices ordinary people make that divide us from one another -- black from white , christian from muslim , tribe from tribe . africa contains a multitude of identities , but the nations and people of africa will not fulfill their promise so long as some use these identities to justify subjugation –- an excuse to steal or kill or disenfranchise others .
the president : well , first of all , julianna , let 's take the example of this year and the fiscal cliff . i did n't say that i would not have any conversations at all about extending the bush tax cuts .
their resolve must be our inspiration . their concerns must be our cause . and we must show them and all our people that we are equal to the task before us . i know that we haven ’ t agreed on every issue thus far , and there are surely times in the future when we will part ways . but i also know that every american who is sitting here tonight loves this country and wants it to succeed . that must be the starting point for every debate we have in the coming months , and where we return after those debates are done . that is the foundation on which the american people expect us to build common ground .
and graduates , today , i ’ m asking you to pay them back by seeking to have the same kind of impact with your own lives ; by pursuing excellence in everything you do ; by serving this country that you love .
change does not happen from the top down -- in america or anywhere else . it happens from the bottom up . it happens because ordinary people dream extraordinary things . it ’ s because all of you decide that change must come .
it is a debate that the american people deserve on the issues that will help determine the future of this country and the future for our children . but what you don ’ t deserve is another election that ’ s governed by fear , and innuendo , and division .
so even as america competes aggressively in asian markets , we ’ re forging the economic partnerships that create opportunity for all . building on our historic trade agreement with south korea , we ’ re working with australia and our other apec partners to create a seamless regional economy . and with australia and other partners , we ’ re on track to achieve our most ambitious trade agreement yet , and a potential model for the entire region -- the trans-pacific partnership .
that is where we are today -- because of our work . iran is isolated , its leadership divided and under pressure . and by the way , the arab spring has only increased these trends , as the hypocrisy of the iranian regime is exposed , and its ally -- the assad regime -- is crumbling .
or they ’ ll talk about government assistance for the poor , despite the fact that they ’ ve already cut early education for vulnerable kids . they 've already cut insurance for people who ’ ve lost their jobs through no fault of their own . or they ’ ll bring up obamacare -- this is tried and true -- despite the fact that our businesses have created nearly twice as many jobs in this recovery as businesses had at the same point in the last recovery when there was no obamacare .
it means we ’ ll have to sort through our priorities and figure out what programs that we can do without on this point , i strongly agree with my friends in the other party . what i don ’ t agree with is the notion that we should also sacrifice critical investments in our people and our future . you know , if you ’ re a family who ’ s tightening your belt , you will definitely sacrifice going out to dinner , but you ’ re not going to sacrifice saving for your child ’ s college education . it ’ s precisely our investments in education and innovation that will make america more competitive in the 21st century . and we can ’ t go back ; we ’ ve got to move forward .
now , of course , turkey has its own responsibilities . and you 've made important progress towards membership . but i also know that turkey has pursued difficult political reforms not simply because it 's good for eu membership , but because it 's right for turkey .
other members of what we call our green team are here : steven chu , our secretary of energy ; martha johnson , the administrator of the gsa ; nancy sutley , the ceq chair . we 've got carol browner , who ’ s the white house energy and climate change director . please give them a big round of applause . they put in a lot of work .
major garrett . question : thank you , mr. president . you said while the law was being debated , “ if you like your plan , you can keep it. ” you said after the law was implemented or signed , “ if you like your plan , you can keep it. ” americans believed you , sir , when you said that to them over and over . do you not believe , sir , the american people deserve a deeper , more transparent accountability from you as to why you said that over and over when your own statistic published in the federal register alerted your policy staff -- and i presume you -- to the fact that millions of americans would , in fact , probably fall into the very gap you ’ re trying to administratively fix now ?
but it was remarkable to see the possibilities for these young people who are able to , let ’ s say , do a chemistry experiment , and they can compare the results with kids in boston
at the same time , israelis must acknowledge that just as israel 's right to exist can not be denied , neither can palestine 's . the united states does not accept the legitimacy of continued israeli settlements . this construction violates previous agreements and undermines efforts to achieve peace . it is time for these settlements to stop .
so , yes , this debate can be contentious . it can be heated . but in the end it serves only to make our country stronger . it has allowed us to adapt and to thrive
it will not be easy . at times , fulfilling these obligations require self-reflection . but in the final analysis , i believe history gives us cause for hope rather than despair -- the hope of a chosen people who have overcome oppression since the days of exodus ; of the nation of israel rising from the destruction of the holocaust ; of the strong and enduring bonds between our nations .
but this is not our fight alone . american power can make a decisive difference , but we can not do for iraqis what they must do for themselves , nor can we take the place of arab partners in securing their region . and that 's why i 've insisted that additional u.s. action depended upon iraqis forming an inclusive government , which they have now done in recent days . so tonight , with a new iraqi government in place , and following consultations with allies abroad and congress at home , i can announce that america will lead a broad coalition to roll back this terrorist threat .
our technological advantage is a key to america 's military dominance . but our defense and military networks are under constant attack . al qaeda and other terrorist groups have spoken of their desire to unleash a cyber attack on our country -- attacks that are harder to detect and harder to defend against . indeed , in today 's world , acts of terror could come not only from a few extremists in suicide vests but from a few key strokes on the computer -- a weapon of mass disruption .
all of us must join together in this effort , not just because it is right , but because by providing assistance to those countries most in need , we will provide new markets , we will drive the growth of the future that lifts all of us up . so it 's not just charity ; it 's a matter of understanding that our fates are tied together -- not just the fate of europe and america , but the fate of the entire world .
and as you know , this week , in my state of the union , i talked about hadiya on tuesday night and the fact that unfortunately what happened to hadiya is not unique . it 's not unique to chicago . it 's not unique to this country . too many of our children are being taken away from us .
the american people will say a prayer for boston tonight . and michelle and i send our deepest thoughts and prayers to the families of the victims in the wake of this senseless loss .
for our gulf war veterans , we 've declared that nine infectious diseases are now presumed to be related to your service in desert storm . for our disabled veterans , we 've eliminated co-pays for those of you who are catastrophically disabled . we 've kept our promise on concurrent receipt by proposing legislation that would allow severely disabled retirees to receive your military retired pay and your va disability benefits . it 's the right thing to do .
across the land , congregations sent them off with food and with prayer . in the middle of the night , entire blocks of harlem came out to wish them well . with the few dollars they scrimped from their labor , some bought tickets and boarded buses , even if they couldn ’ t always sit where they wanted to sit . those with less money hitchhiked or walked . they were seamstresses and steelworkers , students and teachers , maids and pullman porters . they shared simple meals and bunked together on floors . and then , on a hot summer day , they assembled here , in our nation ’ s capital , under the shadow of the great emancipator -- to offer testimony of injustice , to petition their government for redress , and to awaken america ’ s long-slumbering conscience .
so i am cautiously optimistic that over the coming months and coming years that the process that we ’ ve initiated , first announced in december , reaffirmed here at the summit of the americas , will lead to a different future for the cuban people and a different relationship between the united states and cuba .
colleen mccain nelson . q : thank you , mr. president . do you consider today ’ s escalation in ukraine an invasion ? and when you talk about additional costs to russia , are you ready at this point to impose broader economic sanctions ? or are you considering other responses that go beyond sanctions ?
and yet , we also know that with that child ’ s very first step , and each step after that , they are separating from us ; that we won ’ t -- that we can ’ t always be there for them .
that is why we have no greater responsibility than to ensure the decision to place them in harm ’ s way is the right one . and that is why we must learn the lessons of iraq . it is what we owe our soldiers . it is what we owe their families . and it is what we owe our country -- now , and all the days and months to come .
may god bless you . may god bless israel . may god bless the united states of america . todah rabah.1 ( תּוֹדָה רַבָּה . ) thank you . mr. speaker , leader reid , leader mcconnell , leader pelosi , assistant leader clyburn ; to the friends and family of rosa parks ; to the distinguished guests who are gathered here today .
and so there are people that are hurting . we have now 210 confirmed deaths in alabama . we have 1,700 injured . we have a number of people missing at the present time . we ’ re going to continue to work in a rescue-type mode , but we ’ re now more in a recovery mode .
now these questions are not new . war , in one form or another , appeared with the first man . at the dawn of history , its morality was not questioned ; it was simply a fact , like drought or disease -- the manner in which tribes and then civilizations sought power and settled their differences .
and in these past few weeks , as i 've gotten a chance to meet many of the first responders and the police officers and volunteers who raced to help when hardship hits , i was reminded , as i 'm always reminded when i meet our men and women in uniform , whether they 're in war theater , or here back home , or at walter reed in bethesda -- i 'm reminded that all these folks , they don ’ t do it to be honored , they don ’ t do it to be celebrated . they do it because they love their families and they love their neighborhoods and they love their country .
but the potential for natural gas is enormous . and this is an area where there ’ s actually been some broad bipartisan agreement . last year , more than 150 members of congress from both sides of the aisle produced legislation providing incentives to use clean-burning natural gas in our vehicles instead of oil . and that 's a big deal . getting 150 members of congress to agree on anything is a big deal . and they were even joined by t. boone pickens , a businessman who made his fortune on oil , but who is out there making the simple point that we can ’ t simply drill our way out of our energy problems .
and let me say i ’ m grateful to vice president biden for his work on this issue of gun violence and for his proposals , which i 'm going to be reviewing today and i will address in the next few days and i intend to vigorously pursue .
just as we stood for freedom in the 20th century , we must stand together for the right of people everywhere to live free from fear in the 21st century . and as nuclear power -- as a nuclear power , as the only nuclear power to have used a nuclear weapon , the united states has a moral responsibility to act . we can not succeed in this endeavor alone , but we can lead it , we can start it .
and this task of making america more competitive for the long haul , that ’ s a job for all of us . for government and for private companies . for states and for local communities -- and for every american citizen . all of us will have to up our game . all of us will have to change the way we do business .
seven years ago , president bush restarted an important conversation by speaking with the american people about our history as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants . and even though comprehensive immigration reform has taken a little longer than any of us expected , i am hopeful that this year , with the help of speaker boehner and some of the senators and members of congress who are here today , that we bring it home -- for our families , and our economy , and our security , and for this incredible country that we love . and if we do that , it will be in large part thanks to all the hard work of president george w. bush .
over the next six months , we will work to negotiate a comprehensive solution . we approach these negotiations with a basic understanding : iran , like any nation , should be able to access peaceful nuclear energy . but because of its record of violating its obligations , iran must accept strict limitations on its nuclear program that make it impossible to develop a nuclear weapon .
but you ’ ve got all that and the 18th tee box from pebble beach . come on . i ’ m sure some of my staff is running around right now in the michael jordan and mia hamm buildings -- they want to be lab rats for your new gear .
that understanding of law , not as an intellectual exercise or words on a page , but as it affects the lives of ordinary people , has animated every step of elena ’ s career -- including her service as solicitor general today .
here in pensacola , the beautiful beaches are still open . the sand is white and the water is blue . so folks who are looking for a good vacation , they can still come down to pensacola . people need to know that pensacola is still open for business . but that doesn ’ t mean that people aren ’ t angry . that doesn ’ t mean that people aren ’ t scared . that doesn ’ t mean that people have concerns about the future -- we all have those concerns . and people have every right to be angry .
a few months later , on his tenth deployment , cory was nearly killed by a massive roadside bomb in afghanistan . his comrades found him in a canal , face down , underwater , shrapnel in his brain .
you also see our commitment to israel ’ s security in our steadfast opposition to any attempt to de-legitimize the state of israel . as i said at the united nations last year , `` israel ’ s existence must not be a subject for debate , '' and `` efforts to chip away at israel ’ s legitimacy will only be met by the unshakeable opposition of the united states . ''
and this brings me to the final area where we are leading -- our support for the fundamental rights of every human being . every nation will chart its own course . yet it is also true that certain rights are universal ; among them , freedom of speech , freedom of the press , freedom of assembly , freedom of religion , and the freedom of citizens to choose their own leaders .
so i want to repeat -- my message to the federal government : no bureaucracy , no red tape . get resources where they 're needed as fast as possible , as hard as possible , and for the duration , because the recovery process obviously in a place like new jersey is going to take a significant amount of time . the recovery process in a lower manhattan is going to take a lot of time .
here at the academy , brad snyder was the captain of the swim team . he deployed to afghanistan , and while rushing to the aid of his teammates , he stepped on an ied and lost both his eyes . with the support of family and friends , brad learned to feel his way and move again . and before long , he was back in the swimming pool , where he said “ i ’ m free. ” then , just one year later , brad competed at the london paralympics and won three medals , including two golds .
thank you , everybody . god bless you . god bless the united states of america . good afternoon , everybody . i know it ’ s a little warm out here so want to get started . i ’ ve just had a meeting with these governors , members of congress , local officials , as well as admiral thad allen , the national incident commander in charge of response efforts to the bp oil spill . admiral allen gave us an update , the latest information on both the efforts to plug the well , as well as giving us an update on arrangements and coordination that 's being made with respect to mitigating this damage that 's been done .
if you ’ re a foreign student who wants to pursue a career in science or technology , or a foreign entrepreneur who wants to start a business with the backing of american investors , we should help you do that here . because if you succeed , you ’ ll create american businesses and american jobs . you ’ ll help us grow our economy . you ’ ll help us strengthen our middle class .
so , yes , class of 2011 , change will be a constant in your lives . and that can be scary . that can be hard . and sometimes you ’ ll be tempted to turn inward ; to say “ what ’ s good enough for me is good enough. ” sometimes you ’ ll be tempted to turn on one another ; to say “ my problems are the fault of those who don ’ t look like me or sound like me. ” sometime you ’ ll be tempted to give into those voices that warn : “ too hard , ” “ don ’ t try , ” “ no , you can ’ t . ”
you taught us about strength , the kind that comes from within , the kind that we see in our wounded warriors . for you , coming home was the start of another battle : the battle to recover , to stand , to walk , to serve again . and in your resilience we see the essence of america , because we do not give up . no matter the hardship , we push on . and just as the wounds of war can last a lifetime , so does america 's commitment to you and all who serve to give you the care you earned and the opportunities you need as you begin the next proud chapter in your lives .
the people of afghanistan have endured violence for decades . they 've been confronted with occupation by the soviet union , and then by foreign al qaeda fighters who used afghan land for their own purposes . so tonight , i want the afghan people to understand : america seeks an end to this era of war and suffering . we have no interest in occupying your country . we will support efforts by the afghan government to open the door to those taliban who abandon violence and respect the human rights of their fellow citizens . and we will seek a partnership with afghanistan grounded in mutual respect -- to isolate those who destroy , to strengthen those who build , to hasten the day when our troops will leave , and to forge a lasting friendship in which america is your partner , and never your patron .
now , i strongly believe that we should take on , once and for all , the issue of illegal immigration . and i am prepared to work with republicans and democrats to protect our borders , enforce our laws and address the millions of undocumented workers who are now living in the shadows . i know that debate will be difficult . i know it will take time . but tonight , let ’ s agree to make that effort . and let ’ s stop expelling talented , responsible young people who could be staffing our research labs or starting a new business , who could be further enriching this nation .
because the infected securities were being traded worldwide and other nations also had weak regulations , this recession soon became global . and when other nations ca n't afford to buy our goods , it slows our economy even further
a little bit earlier this evening , i received an extraordinarily gracious call from senator mccain . senator mccain fought long and hard in this campaign , and he 's fought even longer and harder for the country that he loves . he has endured sacrifices for america that most of us can not begin to imagine . we are better off for the service rendered by this brave and selfless leader . i congratulate him ; i congratulate governor palin for all that they 've achieved , and i look forward to working with them to renew this nation 's promise in the months ahead .
it ’ s a story of centuries of slavery , and years of wandering in the desert ; a story of perseverance amidst persecution , and faith in god and the torah . it ’ s a story about finding freedom in your own land . and for the jewish people , this story is central to who you ’ ve become . but it ’ s also a story that holds within it the universal human experience , with all of its suffering , but also all of its salvation .
we are committed to working this political track . and as we pursue a settlement , let ’ s remember this is not a zero-sum endeavor . we ’ re no longer in a cold war . there ’ s no great game to be won , nor does america have any interest in syria beyond the wellbeing of its people , the stability of its neighbors , the elimination of chemical weapons , and ensuring that it does not become a safe haven for terrorists .
in this effort , the united states is prepared to act as part of an international coalition . american leadership is essential , but that does not mean acting alone -– it means shaping the conditions for the international community to act together .
in pittsburgh , we will work with the world 's largest economies to chart a course for growth that is balanced and sustained . that means vigilance to ensure that we do not let up until our people are back to work . that means taking steps to rekindle demand so that global recovery can be sustained . and that means setting new rules of the road and strengthening regulation for all financial centers , so that we put an end to the greed and the excess and the abuse that led us into this disaster , and prevent a crisis like this from ever happening again .
and next august , we will begin a transition to afghan responsibility . the pace of our troop reductions will be determined by conditions on the ground , and our support for afghanistan will endure .
and last year we had a glimpse of the future face of war . as russian tanks rolled into georgia , cyber attacks crippled georgian government websites . the terrorists that sowed so much death and destruction in mumbai relied not only on guns and grenades but also on gps and phones using voice-over-the-internet .
president obama : we are not taking military action to solve the ukrainian problem . what we ’ re doing is to mobilize the international community to apply pressure on russia . but i think it is very important to recognize that a military solution to this problem is not going to be forthcoming . now , the fact that russia has taken these actions in violation of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the ukrainians has resulted , i believe , in a weakening of russia , not a strengthening of russia . that may not be apparent immediately , but i think it will become increasingly apparent .
you hear some of these quotes : “ i need a gun to protect myself from the government. ” “ we ca n't do background checks because the government is going to come take my guns away . ”
salvatore giunta ’ s time came on october 25 , 2007. he was a specialist then , just 22 years old . sal and his platoon were several days into a mission in the korengal valley -- the most dangerous valley in northeast afghanistan . the moon was full . the light it cast was enough to travel by without using their night-vision goggles . with heavy gear on their backs , and air support overhead , they made their way single file down a rocky ridge crest , along terrain so steep that sliding was sometimes easier than walking .
we also mean the ideologies , the infrastructure of extremists -- the propagandists , the recruiters , the funders who radicalize and recruit or incite people to violence . we all know there is no one profile of a violent extremist or terrorist , so there ’ s no way to predict who will become radicalized .
today , i can announce that our review is complete , and that the united states will pursue a new strategy to end the war in iraq through a transition to full iraqi responsibility .
i got it from sabrina before malia and sasha and michelle gave me one . so she ’ s 11 years old . she ’ s in the 5th grade . she ’ s a young muslim american .
i want to acknowledge the mayor of washington , d.c. , adrian fenty in the house . the executive director of arc , edmund fleet , is here . i want to thank all the panel discussion participants who are involved in today ’ s events , and i want to thank nurney mason -- a washington , d.c. icon . nurney founded mason ’ s barbershop in 1961. that 's the year i was born . it ’ s still going strong . he is here with his children and his grandchildren . where is he ? there he is right there . i could use a little trim .
as president , i have , therefore , made a deliberate and strategic decision -- as a pacific nation , the united states will play a larger and long-term role in shaping this region and its future , by upholding core principles and in close partnership with our allies and friends .
this morning we made a promising start as we discussed how our partnership can be enhanced through building climate resilient communities . these kind of strong communities are important not only in withstanding disasters , but also in fostering inclusive growth across the entire country .
and thank you for allowing me the profound honor of being a part of it . and thank you for my first honorary associate degree . one of the perks of this job is that degrees come free these days . not that it impresses anybody at home . now michelle just says , “ hey , doctor , go take that dog for a walk . ”
well , the government is us . these officials are elected by you . they are elected by you . i am elected by you . i am constrained , as they are constrained , by a system that our founders put in place . it ’ s a government of and by and for the people .
our free enterprise system is what drives innovation . but because it ’ s not always profitable for companies to invest in basic research , throughout our history , our government has provided cutting-edge scientists and inventors with the support that they need . that ’ s what planted the seeds for the internet . that ’ s what helped make possible things like computer chips and gps . just think of all the good jobs -- from manufacturing to retail -- that have come from these breakthroughs .
the first approach says , let ’ s live within our means by making serious , historic cuts in government spending . let ’ s cut domestic spending to the lowest level it ’ s been since dwight eisenhower was president . let ’ s cut defense spending at the pentagon by hundreds of billions of dollars . let ’ s cut out waste and fraud in health care programs like medicare -- and at the same time , let ’ s make modest adjustments so that medicare is still there for future generations . finally , let ’ s ask the wealthiest americans and biggest corporations to give up some of their breaks in the tax code and special deductions .
abroad , american leadership is the one constant in an uncertain world . it is america that has the capacity and the will to mobilize the world against terrorists . it is america that has rallied the world against russian aggression , and in support of the ukrainian peoples ' right to determine their own destiny . it is america –- our scientists , our doctors , our know-how –- that can help contain and cure the outbreak of ebola . it is america that helped remove and destroy syria 's declared chemical weapons so that they ca n't pose a threat to the syrian people or the world again . and it is america that is helping muslim communities around the world not just in the fight against terrorism , but in the fight for opportunity , and tolerance , and a more hopeful future .
education also teaches you the value of discipline -- that the greatest rewards come not from instant gratification but from sustained effort and from hard work . this is a lesson that 's especially true today , in a culture that prizes flash over substance , that tells us that the goal in life is to be entertained , that says you can be famous just for being famous . you get on a reality show -- do n't know what you 've done -- suddenly you 're famous . but that 's not going to lead to lasting , sustained achievement .
we believe that when a ceo pays his autoworkers enough to buy the cars that they build , the whole company does better . we believe that when a family can no longer be tricked into signing a mortgage they ca n't afford , that family 's protected , but so is the value of other people 's homes -- and so is the entire economy .
what we need to do is to just ask what lessons we can learn from those earlier generations about how they sustained themselves during those hard winters , how they persevered and prevailed . let us in this joshua generation learn how that moses generation overcame .
to you , their families , i know no words can match the depth of your loss , but please know that this nation will honor your soldiers now and forever . and i would ask the gold star families from that deployment to please stand -- including ali kahler , age 11 , and jase brostrom , who this week turns 12. please stand .
the election will take care of itself next week . right now , our number-one priority is to make sure that we are saving lives , that our search-and-rescue teams are going to be in place , that people are going to get the food , the water , the shelter that they need in case of emergency , and that we respond as quickly as possible to get the economy back on track .
or ask sheila white , who grew up in the bronx . fleeing an abusive home , she fell in with a guy who said he ’ d protect her . instead , he sold her -- just 15 years old -- 15 -- to men who raped her and beat her , and burned her with irons . and finally , after years -- with the help of a non-profit led by other survivors -- she found the courage to break free and get the services she needed . sheila earned her ged . today she is a powerful , fierce advocate who helped to pass a new anti-trafficking law right here in new york .
today i 'm releasing a report on our review , and can announce that my administration will pursue a new comprehensive approach to securing america 's digital infrastructure . this new approach starts at the top , with this commitment from me : from now on , our digital infrastructure -- the networks and computers we depend on every day -- will be treated as they should be : as a strategic national asset . protecting this infrastructure will be a national security priority . we will ensure that these networks are secure , trustworthy and resilient . we will deter , prevent , detect , and defend against attacks and recover quickly from any disruptions or damage .
so we can ’ t afford to stand pat while the world races by . the united states of america did not become the most prosperous nation on earth by sheer luck or happenstance . we got here because each time a generation of americans has faced a changing world , we have changed with it . we have not feared our future ; we have shaped it . america does not stand still ; we move forward .
i think that precisely because you are coming of age at a time of such rapid and sometimes unsettling change , born into a world with fewer walls , educated in an era of constant information , tempered by war and economic turmoil -- because that ’ s the world in which you ’ re coming of age , i think you believe as deeply as any of our previous generations that america can change and it can change for the better .
because part of ending a war responsibly is standing by those who have fought it two weeks ago , america ’ s final combat brigade in iraq -- the army ’ s fourth stryker brigade -- journeyed home in the pre-dawn darkness . thousands of soldiers and hundreds of vehicles made the trip from baghdad , the last of them passing into kuwait in the early morning hours . over seven years before , american troops and coalition partners had fought their way across similar highways , but this time no shots were fired . it was just a convoy of brave americans , making their way home .
but when all is said and done -- when you pick up that ballot to vote -- you will face the clearest choice of any time in a generation . over the next few years , big decisions will be made in washington -- on jobs , the economy , taxes and deficits , energy , education , war and peace -- decisions that will have a huge impact on our lives and our children ’ s lives for decades to come .
our founders understood that america does not stand still ; we are dynamic , not static . we look forward , not back . and now that new doors have been opened for you , you ’ ve got an obligation to seize those opportunities .
so here ’ s the bottom line . that ’ s our proposal : toughest insurance reforms in history , one of the biggest deficit-reduction plans in history , and the opportunity to give millions of people -- some of them in your own family , some of the people who are in this auditorium today -- an opportunity for the first time in a very long time to get affordable health care . that ’ s it . that ’ s what we ’ re trying to do . that ’ s what the congress of the united states is about to vote on this weekend .
it 's the answer told by lines that stretched around schools and churches in numbers this nation has never seen ; by people who waited three hours and four hours , many for the very first time in their lives , because they believed that this time must be different ; that their voices could be that difference .
born during world war i , far from the corridors of power , a boy raised herding cattle and tutored by the elders of his thembu tribe , madiba would emerge as the last great liberator of the 20th century .
in the weeks and months ahead , i look forward to working with congress to make up the difference so that health care reform is fully paid for -- in a real , accountable way . and let me add that this does not count longer-term savings . i just want to repeat that . by insisting that the reforms that we 're introducing are deficit-neutral over the next decade , and by making the reforms that will help slow the growth rate of health care costs over the coming decades -- bending the curve -- we can look forward to faster economic growth , higher living standards , and falling , instead of rising , budget deficits .
it was about my birth certificate . and that was true on most of the news outlets that were represented here and so i just want to make a larger point here . we 've got some enormous challenges out there . there are a lot of folks out there who are still looking for work . everybody is still suffering under high gas prices . we 're going to have to make a series of very difficult decisions about how we invest in our future but also get a hold of our deficit and our debt -- how do we do that in a balanced way .
it 's also why we need new legal authority so that we have the power to intervene in such financial institutions , the same way that bankruptcy courts currently do with businesses that hit hard times but do n't pose systemic risks -- and that way we can restructure these businesses in an orderly way that does n't induce panic in the financial system -- and , by the way , will allow us to restructure inappropriate bonus contracts without creating a perception the government can just change compensation rules on a whim .
and that ’ s before we count all the game-changing measures that are going to assure , for example , that instead of having five tests when you go to the doctor you just get one ; that the delivery system is working for patients , not just working for billings . and everybody who ’ s looked at it says that every single good idea to bend the cost curve and start actually reducing health care costs are in this bill .
now , this change also extends to politics . when my stepfather was a boy , he watched his own father and older brother leave home to fight and die in the struggle for indonesian independence . and i ’ m happy to be here on heroes day to honor the memory of so many indonesians who have sacrificed on behalf of this great country .
and we did something really remarkable in washington -- we kept it a secret . that ’ s how it should be . of course , when the time came to actually make the decision , we didn ’ t know for sure that bin laden was there . the evidence was circumstantial and the risks , especially to the lives of our special operations forces , were huge . and i knew that the consequences of failure could be enormous . but i made the decision that i did because i had absolute confidence in the skill of our military personnel and i had confidence in you . i put my bet on you . and now the whole world knows that that faith in you was justified .
these are all kinds of -- there are all kinds of examples of what 's possible . we 've seen cisco , for example , working with community colleges to prepare students and workers for jobs ranging from work in broadband to health it . we know that the most successful community colleges are those that partner with the private sector . so we want to encourage more companies to work with schools to build these type of relationships . that way , when somebody goes through a training program , they know that there 's a job at the end of that training .
we 're going to keep up this work -- for pastor abedini and all those around the world who are unjustly held or persecuted because of their faith . and we 're grateful to our new ambassador-at-large for international religious freedom , rabbi david saperstein -- who has hit the ground running , and is heading to iraq in a few days to help religious communities there address some of those challenges . where 's david ? i know he 's here somewhere . thank you , david , for the great work you 're doing .
none of our hands are clean so let us say that on this day of all days , each of us carries with us the task of changing our hearts and minds . the divisions , the stereotypes , the scapegoating , the ease with which we blame the plight of ourselves on others -- all of that distracts us from the common challenges that we face , war and poverty , inequality and injustice .
point number two is , this is going to be a critical period , these next 18 months . i was just discussing this with your commander , but i think it 's something that all of you know . it is time for us to transition to the iraqis . they need to take responsibility for their country and for their sovereignty .
this assembly 's charter commits each of us -- and i quote -- `` to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights , in the dignity and worth of the human person , in the equal rights of men and women . '' among those rights is the freedom to speak your mind and worship as you please ; the promise of equality of the races , and the opportunity for women and girls to pursue their own potential ; the ability of citizens to have a say in how you are governed , and to have confidence in the administration of justice . for just as no nation should be forced to accept the tyranny of another nation , no individual should be forced to accept the tyranny of their own people .
they took to the skies and sped across deserts in the initial charge into baghdad . and today we 're joined by an infantryman who was there as part of the 101st airborne division -- sergeant nicholas bernardi is here .
so regulations did n't destroy the industry ; it enhanced it and it made our lives better -- if they 're smart , if they 're well designed . and that 's our goal , is to work with you to think through how do we design necessary regulations in a smart way and get rid of regulations that have outlived their usefulness , or do n't work .
and so i ’ ve established a national commission to understand the causes of this disaster and offer recommendations on what additional safety and environmental standards we need to put in place . already , i ’ ve issued a six-month moratorium on deepwater drilling .
on this day , it ’ s perhaps natural to focus on the images of that awful morning -- images that are seared into our souls . it ’ s tempting to dwell on the final moments of the loved ones whose lives were taken so cruelly . yet these memorials , and your presence today , remind us to remember the fullness of their time on earth .
of course , the easiest way to save money is to waste less energy . so here ’ s a proposal : help manufacturers eliminate energy waste in their factories and give businesses incentives to upgrade their buildings . their energy bills will be 100 billion dollars lower over the next decade , and america will have less pollution , more manufacturing , more jobs for construction workers who need them . send me a bill that creates these jobs .
already , america and turkey are working with the g20 on an unprecedented response to an unprecedented economic crisis . now , this past week , we came together to ensure that the world 's largest economies take strong and coordinated action to stimulate growth and restore the flow of credit ; to reject the pressures of protectionism , and to extend a hand to developing countries and the people hit hardest by this downturn ; and to dramatically reform our regulatory system so that the world never faces a crisis like this again .
and so the fact that she voted and that her vote was counted in this election was of supreme importance to her and it is the memory of talking to her and shaking her hand that causes me to rise on this occasion .
so we can talk all we want here in washington about issues like education and health care and crime ; we can build good schools ; we can put money into creating good jobs ; we can do everything we can to keep our streets safe -- but government can ’ t keep our kids from looking for trouble on those streets . government can ’ t force a kid to pick up a book or make sure that the homework gets done . government can ’ t be there day in , day out , to provide discipline and guidance and the love that it takes to raise a child . that ’ s our job as fathers , as mothers , as guardians for our children .
still , there are few breakthroughs as promising for increasing fuel efficiency and reducing our dependence on oil as electric vehicles . soon after i took office , i set a goal of having one million electric vehicles on our roads by 2015. we ’ ve created incentives for american companies to develop these vehicles , and for americans who want them to buy them .
and if we do that well , if america shows itself as an example of its diversity and yet the capacity to live together and work together in common effort , in common purpose ; if india , as massive as it is , with so much diversity , so many differences is able to continually affirm its democracy , that is an example for every other country on earth .
i ’ ve updated leaders of congress in both parties , and we reaffirmed that on days like this there are no republicans or democrats -- we are americans , united in concern for our fellow citizens .
the bipartisan fiscal commission i created last year made this crystal clear . i don ’ t agree with all their proposals , but they made important progress . and their conclusion is that the only way to tackle our deficit is to cut excessive spending wherever we find it –- in domestic spending , defense spending , health care spending , and spending through tax breaks and loopholes .
see , there ’ s nothing we can ’ t do together , 101st , when we remember who we are , at that is the united states of america . when we remember that , no problem is too hard and no challenge is too great .
president aquino : with regards to the killing of journalists , perhaps we should say from the outset that i do n't have the figures right here before me . but we did set up an interagency committee to look on extralegal killings and forced disappearances , torture , and other grave violations of right to life , liberty and security of persons .
my mother was able to raise two kids by herself , in part because she got grants that helped pay for her education . and i am only standing here -– and michelle is only where she is today –- because of scholarships and student loans and work study . we did not come from families of means . we did n't come from families of means , but we knew that if we worked hard , there was help out there to make sure we got a great education . that ’ s what this country gave to us .
in both our countries , in india and in america , our diversity is our strength . and we have to guard against any efforts to divide ourselves along sectarian lines or any other lines .
across the country , there are extraordinary , hardworking journalists who have lost their jobs in recent days , recent weeks , recent months . and i know that each newspaper and media outlet is wrestling with how to respond to these changes , and some are struggling simply to stay open . and it wo n't be easy . not every ending will be a happy one .
[ teleprompters rise . ] good evening . pause for laughter . wait a minute , this may not be working as well as i -- let me try that again . good evening , everybody . i would like to welcome you all to the 10-day anniversary of my first 100 days . i am barack obama . most of you covered me . all of you voted for me . apologies to the fox table . they 're -- where are they ? i have to confess i really did not want to be here tonight , but i knew i had to come -- just one more problem that i 've inherited from george w. bush .
we can achieve that , and we can achieve it fairly quickly . i mean , we know what the numbers are . we know what needs to be done . we know what a balanced approach would take . we ’ ve already done probably more than half of the deficit reduction we need to stabilize the debt and the deficit . there ’ s probably been more pain and drama in getting there than we needed . and so finishing the job shouldn ’ t be that difficult -- if everybody comes to the conversation with an open mind , and if we recognize that there are some things , like not paying our bills , that should be out of bounds .
and in this particular body , there has been -- i have the figures for labor-related issues -- there were 62 suspected cases of extrajudicial killings referred to it , and of the 62 investigations before this committee , there have been 10 that have been determined to fulfill the criteria and the definitions of what constitutes an extrajudicial killing . of the 10 cases that have been determined to be possible ejk cases , only one happened during our watch -- the case of mr. estrellado .
you may have noticed that during these tough budget times , i took the step of freezing pay for our federal workforce . but because of the service that you rendered , all who wear the uniform of the united states of america are exempt from that action . hooah !
now , this is all welcome and encouraging news . it does not mean the hard times are over ; 2009 will continue to be a difficult year for america 's economy , and obviously , most difficult for those who 've lost their jobs .
right now , we have 11 million undocumented immigrants in america ; 11 million men and women from all over the world who live their lives in the shadows . yes , they broke the rules . they crossed the border illegally . maybe they overstayed their visas . those are facts . nobody disputes them . but these 11 million men and women are now here . many of them have been here for years . and the overwhelming majority of these individuals aren ’ t looking for any trouble . they ’ re contributing members of the community . they 're looking out for their families . they 're looking out for their neighbors . they 're woven into the fabric of our lives .
so let me just make one last point , by the way , for those of you who are following this . now , lately , some people have been saying , well , maybe we 'll just give the president some flexibility .
it prevents learning -- since , after all , why should we listen to a “ fascist , ” or a “ socialist , ” or a “ right-wing nut , ” or a left-wing nut ”
every faith community can take action as well , by educating their congregations , by joining in coalitions that are bound by a love of god and a concern for the oppressed . and like that good samaritan on the road to jericho , we can ’ t just pass by , indifferent . we ’ ve got to be moved by compassion . we ’ ve got to bind up the wounds . let ’ s come together around a simple truth -- that we are our brother ’ s keepers and we are our sister ’ s keepers .
this single step would raise the incomes of millions of working families . it could mean the difference between groceries or the food bank ; rent or eviction ; scraping by or finally getting ahead . for businesses across the country , it would mean customers with more money in their pockets . and a whole lot of folks out there would probably need less help from government . in fact , working folks shouldn ’ t have to wait year after year for the minimum wage to go up while ceo pay has never been higher . so here ’ s an idea that governor romney and i actually agreed on last year -- let ’ s tie the minimum wage to the cost of living , so that it finally becomes a wage you can live on .
rosa parks held no elected office . she possessed no fortune ; lived her life far from the formal seats of power . and yet today , she takes her rightful place among those who ’ ve shaped this nation ’ s course . i thank all those persons , in particular the members of the congressional black caucus , both past and present , for making this moment possible .
we will proceed with humility , and the knowledge that we can not dictate every outcome abroad . ultimately , freedom must be won by the people themselves , not imposed from without . but we can and must stand with those who so struggle . because we have always believed that the future of our children and grandchildren will be better if other people ’ s children and grandchildren are more prosperous and more free -- from the beaches of normandy to the balkans to benghazi . that is our interests and our ideals . and if we fail to meet that responsibility , who would take our place , and what kind of world would we pass on ?
that ’ s what happened too often in the years leading up to this crisis . some -- and let me be clear , not all -- but some on wall street forgot that behind every dollar traded or leveraged there ’ s family looking to buy a house , or pay for an education , open a business , save for retirement .
that ’ s why this has already been the largest cleanup effort in u.s. history . on the day this disaster began , even as we launched a search and rescue effort for workers on the drilling rig , we were already staging equipment in the event of a larger-scale spill . by the time we discovered the third breach , a week after the deepwater horizon platform sank , we had already stationed more than 70 vessels and hundreds of thousands of feet of protective boom on site .
yet , while i believe i have the authority to carry out this military action without specific congressional authorization , i know that the country will be stronger if we take this course , and our actions will be even more effective . we should have this debate , because the issues are too big for business as usual . and this morning , john boehner , harry reid , nancy pelosi and mitch mcconnell agreed that this is the right thing to do for our democracy .
that 's why it 's so important that we help small business struggling to stay open , or struggling to open in the first place , during these difficult times . building on the tax cuts in the recovery act , we 're proposing a complete elimination of capital gains taxes on small business investment along with an extension of write-offs to encourage small businesses to expand in the coming year . and i believe it 's worthwhile to create a tax incentive to encourage small businesses to add and keep employees , and i 'm going to work with congress to pass one .
as a student of history , i also know civilization 's debt to islam . it was islam -- at places like al-azhar -- that carried the light of learning through so many centuries , paving the way for europe 's renaissance and enlightenment . it was innovation in muslim communities -- it was innovation in muslim communities that developed the order of algebra , our magnetic compass and tools of navigation , our mastery of pens and printing , our understanding of how disease spreads and how it can be healed . islamic culture has given us majestic arches and soaring spires ; timeless poetry and cherished music ; elegant calligraphy and places of peaceful contemplation . and throughout history , islam has demonstrated through words and deeds the possibilities of religious tolerance and racial equality .
on friday , i was joined at the white house by prime minister netanyahu , and we reaffirmed -- we reaffirmed that fundamental truth that has guided our presidents and prime ministers for more than 60 years -- that even while we may at times disagree , as friends sometimes will , the bonds between the united states and israel are unbreakable -- and the commitment of the united states to the security of israel is ironclad .
in brazil , you fought against two decades of dictatorships for the same right to be heard -– the right to be free from fear , free from want . and yet , for years , democracy and development were slow to take hold , and millions suffered as a result .
you know , folks ask me sometimes why i look so calm . they say , all this stuff coming at you , how come you just seem calm ? and i have a confession to make here . there are times where i 'm not so calm . reggie love knows . my wife knows . there are times when progress seems too slow . there are times when the words that are spoken about me hurt . there are times when the barbs sting . there are times when it feels like all these efforts are for naught , and change is so painfully slow in coming , and i have to confront my own doubts .
that ’ s why i ’ m running , iowa -- to give our children and grandchildren the same chances somebody gave me . that ’ s why i ’ m running , democrats -- to keep the american dream alive for those who still hunger for opportunity , who still thirst for equality .
scripture teaches us a hard truth . the mountains may fall and the earth may give way ; the flesh and the heart may fail . but after all our suffering , god and grace will `` restore you and make you strong , firm and steadfast . '' so it is -- so it has been for these families . so it must be for our nation .
we 've known for a long time that the revolutions in communications and technology that took place in the 20th century would hold out enormous promise for the 21st century -- the promise of broader prosperity and mobility ; of new breakthroughs and discoveries that could help us lead richer and fuller lives . but the same forces that have brought us closer together have also given rise to new dangers that threaten to tear our world apart -- dangers that can not be contained by the nearest border or the furthest ocean .
so think about what that means to a young latina girl when she sees a cabinet secretary that looks like her . think about what it means to a young girl in iowa when she sees a presidential candidate who looks like her . think about what it means to a young girl walking in harlem right down the street when she sees a u.n. ambassador who looks like her . do not underestimate the power of your example .
there will be careful preparation . i commend the work of our european allies on this important matter , and we should be full partners in that effort . ultimately the measure of any effort is whether it leads to a change in iranian behavior . that 's why we must pursue these tough negotiations in full coordination with our allies , bringing to bear our full influence -- including , if it will advance our interests , my meeting with the appropriate iranian leader at a time and place of my choosing .
we are the keepers of this legacy . guided by these principles once more , we can meet those new threats that demand even greater effort -- even greater cooperation and understanding between nations . we will begin to responsibly leave iraq to its people , and forge a hard-earned peace in afghanistan . with old friends and former foes , we will work tirelessly to lessen the nuclear threat , and roll back the specter of a warming planet . we will not apologize for our way of life , nor will we waver in its defense , and for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents , we say to you now that our spirit is stronger and can not be broken . you can not outlast us , and we will defeat you !
i ’ ve selected general dempsey and admiral winnefeld because of their record -- and potential -- as individuals . but i ’ ve also selected them because they will make an extraordinary team -- despite their competing loyalties to army and navy . between them , they bring deep experience in virtually every domain -- land , air , space , sea , cyber . both of them have the respect and the trust of our troops on the frontlines , our friends in congress , and allies and partners abroad . and both of them have my full confidence .
so , even as we aggressively pursue terrorist networks -- through more targeted efforts and by building the capacity of our foreign partners -- america must move off a permanent war footing . that 's why i 've imposed prudent limits on the use of drones -- for we will not be safer if people abroad believe we strike within their countries without regard for the consequence .
once again , i view the process of selecting a supreme court nominee as among my most serious responsibilities as president . and while we can not replace justice stevens ’ experience or wisdom , i will seek someone in the coming weeks with similar qualities -- an independent mind , a record of excellence and integrity , a fierce dedication to the rule of law , and a keen understanding of how the law affects the daily lives of the american people .
this is supposed to be about paying down our deficit ? it ’ s laughable . the bipartisan simpson-bowles commission that i created -- which the republicans originally were for until i was for it -- that was about paying down the deficit . and i didn ’ t agree with all the details . i proposed about $ 600 billion more in revenue and $ 600 billion -- i 'm sorry -- it proposed about $ 600 billion more in revenue and about $ 600 billion more in defense cuts than i proposed in my own budget . but bowles-simpson was a serious , honest , balanced effort between democrats and republicans to bring down the deficit . that ’ s why , although it differs in some ways , my budget takes a similarly balanced approach : cuts in discretionary spending , cuts in mandatory spending , increased revenue .
but in libya , we saw the prospect of imminent massacre , we had a mandate for action , and heard the libyan people ’ s call for help . had we not acted along with our nato allies and regional coalition partners , thousands would have been killed . the message would have been clear : keep power by killing as many people as it takes . now , time is working against qaddafi . he does not have control over his country . the opposition has organized a legitimate and credible interim council . and when qaddafi inevitably leaves or is forced from power , decades of provocation will come to an end , and the transition to a democratic libya can proceed .
as soon as this week , congress will begin debating these common-sense proposals to reduce gun violence . your senators , dick blumenthal and chris murphy -- they 're here -- your representatives , john larson , rosa delauro , elizabeth esty , jim hines , joe courtney , they are all pushing to pass this legislation . but much of congress is going to only act if they hear from you , the american people . so here 's what we have to do .
it ’ s about every parent who knows the desperation of trying to cover a child with a chronic illness only to be told “ no ” again and again and again . it ’ s about every small business owner forced to choose between insuring employees and staying open for business .
we will continue to provide military assistance and advice to the iraqi government and kurdish forces as they battle these terrorists , so that the terrorists can not establish a permanent safe haven . we will continue to work with the international community to deal with the growing humanitarian crisis in iraq . even as our attention is focused on preventing an act of genocide and helping the men and women and children on the mountain , countless iraqis have been driven or fled from their homes , including many christians .
in 2009 , i took office in the face of some enormous challenges . now , some have said i blame too many problems on my predecessor , but let ’ s not forget that ’ s a practice that was initiated by george w. bush . since then , congress and i have certainly had our differences ; yet , i ’ ve tried to be civil , to not take any cheap shots . and that ’ s why i want to especially thank all the members who took a break from their exhausting schedule of not passing any laws to be here tonight . let ’ s give them a big round of applause .
we have to make tough choices and smart investments today so that as the economy recovers , the deficits start coming down . we can not have a solid recovery if our people and our businesses do n't have confidence that we 're getting our fiscal house in order .
while conducting a patrol as team leader , with company b , 2d battalion airborne , 503d infantry regiment , specialist giunta and his team were navigating through harsh terrain when they were ambushed by a well-armed and well-coordinated insurgent force .
too often this administration ’ s approach to homeland security has been to scatter money around and avoid hard choices , or to scare americans without telling them what to be scared of , or what to do . a department set up to make americans feel safer didn ’ t even show up when bodies drifted through the streets in new orleans . that ’ s not acceptable .
and i tell that story partly because it brings a smile to my face , but also because it captures the quiet , dogged , dignified persistence that all of us who loved dr. height came to know so well -- an attribute that we understand she learned early on .
third , we have to keep investing in the clean energy that creates jobs and combats climate change . the united states is today leading this global effort , along with many of you . and i should point out that america 's carbon pollution is near its lowest level in almost two decades . across the americas , i think we have the opportunity to expand our clean energy partnerships and increase our investments in renewables .
countries like india and china realized this . they understand that they no longer need to be just a source of cheap labor or cheap exports . they can compete with us on a global scale . the one resource they needed were skilled , educated workers . so they started schooling their kids earlier , longer , with a greater emphasis on math and science and technology , until their most talented students realized they don ’ t have to come to america to have a decent life -- they can stay right where they are .
we ’ re also planning to cut away the red tape that prevents too many rapidly growing startup companies from raising capital and going public . and to help responsible homeowners , we ’ re going to work with federal housing agencies to help more people refinance their mortgages at interest rates that are now near 4 percent .
president obama : well , ed , i doubt that i ’ m going to have time to lay out my entire foreign policy doctrine . and there are actually some complimentary pieces as well about my foreign policy , but i ’ m not sure you ran them .
first , the friendship between the united states and indonesia can advance our mutual interest in development . when i moved to indonesia , it would have been hard to imagine a future in which the prosperity of families in chicago and jakarta would be connected . but our economies are now global , and indonesians have experienced both the promise and the perils of globalization : from the shock of the asian financial crisis in the ‘ 90s , to the millions lifted out of poverty because of increased trade and commerce . what that means -- and what we learned in the recent economic crisis -- is that we have a stake in each other ’ s success .
dorwan and mavy stoddard grew up in tucson together -– about 70 years ago . they moved apart and started their own respective families . but after both were widowed they found their way back here , to , as one of mavy ’ s daughters put it , “ be boyfriend and girlfriend again . ”
let ’ s also make sure that a high school diploma puts our kids on a path to a good job . right now , countries like germany focus on graduating their high school students with the equivalent of a technical degree from one of our community colleges . so those german kids , they 're ready for a job when they graduate high school . they 've been trained for the jobs that are there . now at schools like p-tech in brooklyn , a collaboration between new york public schools and city university of new york and ibm , students will graduate with a high school diploma and an associate 's degree in computers or engineering .
president obama : that ’ s an interesting question . let me speak more broadly , and then i ’ ll answer your question . we were talking earlier about what ’ s required for myanmar to succeed . i think one of the most important things is to put an end to discrimination against people because of what they look like or what their faith is . and the rohingya have been discriminated against significantly , and that ’ s part of the reason they ’ re fleeing .
i know this historic moment comes at a time of great uncertainty for many americans . we ’ ve now been through nearly a decade of war . we ’ ve endured a long and painful recession . and sometimes in the midst of these storms , the future that we ’ re trying to build for our nation -- a future of lasting peace and long-term prosperity -- may seem beyond our reach .
she was born just a generation past slavery ; a time when there were no cars on the road or planes in the sky ; when someone like her could n't vote for two reasons : because she was a woman and because of the color of her skin .
so that 's the first pillar of our education reform agenda . the second , we will end what has become a race to the bottom in our schools and instead spur a race to the top by encouraging better standards and assessments .
and at a time when so many young people around the world are standing up and making their voices heard , i also want to acknowledge all the college students from across the country who are here today . no one has a greater stake in the outcome of events that are unfolding today than your generation , and it ’ s inspiring to see you devote your time and energy to help shape that future .
we ’ ve also been reminded in the last few years that markets can sometimes fail . in the last century , both our nations put in place regulatory frameworks to deal with such market failures -- safeguards to protect the banking system after the great depression , for example ; regulations that were established to prevent the pollution of our air and water during the 1970s .
so if everybody can just take a moment . [ > silence observed < ] thank you , everybody . i hope all of you will keep the people of aurora in your hearts and minds today . may the lord bring them comfort and healing in hard days to come .
if that ’ s the choice that members of congress want to make , then we ’ re going to make sure every american knows about it . in a few weeks , there will be a vote on what we ’ ve called the buffett rule . simple concept : if you make more than a million dollars a year -- not that you have a million dollars -- if you make more than a million dollars annually , then you should pay at least the same percentage of your income in taxes as middle-class families do . on the other hand , if you make under $ 250,000 a year -- like 98 percent of american families do -- then your taxes shouldn ’ t go up . that ’ s the proposal .
so these are things that i said publicly when i was in myanmar -- when i was in malaysia , rather . i had an opportunity to meet with some community activists and civil society leaders there . and this is something that i say everywhere we go . and it ’ s important for america to recognize that we ’ re not perfect , either , and so we have to make sure that we are constantly seeing how do we improve our democracy . i mean , the amounts of money , for example , that are involved in our elections these days is disturbing because it makes it seem as if a few people have more influence in the democracy than the many .
i worked with business leaders who are bringing jobs back to america not because our workers make less pay , but because we make better products -- because we work harder and smarter than anyone else .
number three -- and this is a long-term project -- we need to spend some time in thinking about how do we bolster and reinforce our african american boys . and this is something that michelle and i talk a lot about . there are a lot of kids out there who need help who are getting a lot of negative reinforcement . and is there more that we can do to give them the sense that their country cares about them and values them and is willing to invest in them ?
it ’ s why men of peace in saffron robes faced beatings and bullets , and why every day -- from some of the world ’ s largest cities to dusty rural towns , in small acts of courage the world may never see -- a student posts a blog ; a citizen signs a charter ; an activist remains unbowed , imprisoned in his home , just to have the same rights that we cherish here today .
i reject a system that rewards failure and protects a person from its consequences . the stakes are too high . we can afford nothing but the best when it comes to our children 's teachers and the schools where they teach
governor bentley : yes , sir . yes , sir . but i am -- let me say i am so proud of our first responders in this state . they have done an outstanding job . our mayors , our county commissioners , our police , our firemen -- they have all just done a fantastic job . our ema people , they have just -- we have got a great team . they ’ ve all worked together . and now we have the federal government helping us . and , you know , that just shows when locals and state and federal government works together , we can get things accomplished , and that 's what we ’ re going to do .
jon karl . q thank you , mr. president . on the issue of guns , given how difficult it will be -- some would say impossible -- to get any gun control measure passed through this congress , what are you willing or able to do , using the powers of your presidency , to act without congress ? and i 'd also like to know , what do you make of these long lines we 're seeing at gun shows and gun stores all around the country ? i mean , even in connecticut , applications for guns are up since the shooting in newtown .
chancellor merkel mentioned that we mark the anniversary of president john f. kennedy ’ s stirring defense of freedom , embodied in the people of this great city . his pledge of solidarity -- “ ich bin ein berliner ” -- echoes through the ages . but that ’ s not all that he said that day . less remembered is the challenge that he issued to the crowd before him : “ let me ask you , ” he said to those berliners , “ let me ask you to lift your eyes beyond the dangers of today ” and “ beyond the freedom of merely this city. ” look , he said , “ to the day of peace with justice , beyond yourselves and ourselves to all mankind . ”
to president bush and mrs. bush ; to president clinton and now-former secretary clinton ; to president george h.w . bush and mrs. bush ; to president and mrs. carter ; to current and former world leaders and all the distinguished guests here today : michelle and i are honored to be with you to mark this historic occasion .
and for this first class of 75 , more than 1,000 people applied . the competition was intense . today , i ’ m proud to welcome you as the first class of yseali fellows .
it ’ s a life that immeasurably improved the lives of west virginians . of course , robert byrd was a deeply religious man , a christian . and so he understood that our lives are marked by sins as well as virtues , failures as well as success , weakness as well as strength . we know there are things he said -- and things he did -- that he came to regret . i remember talking about that the first time i visited with him . he said , “ there are things i regretted in my youth . you may know that. ” and i said , “ none of us are absent some regrets , senator . that ’ s why we enjoy and seek the grace of god . ”
i don ’ t want to see more american lives put at risk because no one had the judgment or the courage to stand up against a misguided war before we sent our troops into fight .
but -- and here 's the big “ but ” -- i ’ m here to tell you today that we 're not there yet . we all know that . we 're not there yet . we 've got more work to do . even though our businesses are creating new jobs and have broken record profits , nearly all the income gains of the past 10 years have continued to flow to the top 1 percent . the average ceo has gotten a raise of nearly 40 percent since 2009. the average american earns less than he or she did in 1999. and companies continue to hold back on hiring those who ’ ve been out of work for some time .
at time , the conflicts arise along the fault lines of race or tribe . and often they arise from the difficulties of reconciling tradition and faith with the diversity and interdependence of the modern world . in every country , there are those who find different religious beliefs threatening ; in every culture , those who love freedom for themselves must ask themselves how much they ’ re willing to tolerate freedom for others .
internationally , we ’ ve reinvigorated diplomacy in a whole variety of ways . people don ’ t remember -- when i came into office , the united states in world opinion ranked below china and just barely above russia .
the cyber world is sort of the wild , wild west . and to some degree , we 're asked to be the sheriff . when something like sony happens , people want to know what can government do about this .
our laws should respect families following the rules -- instead of splitting them apart . we need to provide farms a legal way to hire the workers they rely on , and a path for those workers to earn legal status . and we should stop punishing innocent young people for the actions of their parents by denying them the chance to stay here and earn an education and contribute their talents to build the country where they ’ ve grown up . the dream act would do this , and that ’ s why i supported this bill as a state legislator and as a u.s. senator -- and why i continue to support it as president .
and in that effort , we have reason to hope . this year has been a time of extraordinary transformation . more nations have stepped forward to maintain international peace and security . and more individuals are claiming their universal right to live in freedom and dignity .
i 've proposed a freeze in government spending for three years . this wo n't apply to the benefits folks get through social security , medicaid , or medicare . and it wo n't apply to our national security -- including benefits for veterans . but it will apply to all other discretionary government programs . and we 're not simply photocopying last year 's budget ; freezing spending does not mean we wo n't cut what does n't work to pay for what does .
and so now , class of 2010 , the question for your generation is this : how will you keep our democracy going ? at a moment when our challenges seem so big and our politics seem so small , how will you keep our democracy alive and vibrant ; how will you keep it well in this century ?
and we have a wonderfully mixed group . we have cariocas and paulistas , baianas , mineiros . we ’ ve got men and women from the cities to the interior , and so many young people here who are the great future of this great nation .
one year later , exactly 60 years ago tomorrow , we ensured our shared security when 12 of our nations signed a treaty in washington that spelled out a simple agreement : an attack on one would be viewed as an attack on all . without firing a single shot , this alliance would prevent the iron curtain from descending on the free nations of western europe . it would lead eventually to the crumbling of a wall in berlin and the end of the communist threat . two decades later , with 28 member nations that stretched from the baltic to the mediterranean , nato remains the strongest alliance that the world has ever known .
like every nation we have a responsibility to ensure that our laws are upheld . but we also know that , as a nation of immigrants , the immigration system we have in the united states right now doesn ’ t reflect our values .
these negotiations will be difficult . they may not succeed . we are clear-eyed about iran 's support for terrorist organizations like hezbollah , which threaten our allies ; and the mistrust between our nations can not be wished away . but these negotiations do not rely on trust ; any long-term deal we agree to must be based on verifiable action that convinces us and the international community that iran is not building a nuclear bomb . if john f. kennedy and ronald reagan could negotiate with the soviet union , then surely a strong and confident america can negotiate with less powerful adversaries today .
but of course , let 's face it , there is one issue on every reporter 's mind and that is 2016. already , we 've seen some missteps . it turns out jeb bush identified himself as `` hispanic '' back in 2009. which you know what , look , i understand . it 's an innocent mistake . reminds me of when i identified myself as `` american '' back in 1961 .
dick cheney was supposed to be here but he is very busy working on his memoirs , tentatively titled , `` how to shoot friends and interrogate people . '' you know , it 's been a whirlwind of activity these first hundred days . we 've enacted a major economic recovery package , we passed a budget , we forged a new path in iraq , and no president in history has ever named three commerce secretaries this quickly . which reminds me , if judd gregg is here , your business cards are ready now .
america can not put a stop to these tragedies alone , and you don ’ t expect us to . that ’ s a job for africans . but we can help , and we will help .
it is wonderful to be back with the american legion . back in illinois , my home state -- hey ! illinois is in the house . we worked together to make sure veterans across the state were getting the benefits they had earned . when i was in the u.s. senate , we worked together to spotlight the tragedy of homelessness among veterans -- and the need to end it .
in west africa , our troops , our scientists , our doctors , our nurses , our health care workers are rolling back ebola -- saving countless lives and stopping the spread of disease . i could not be prouder of them , and i thank this congress for your bipartisan support of their efforts . but the job is not yet done , and the world needs to use this lesson to build a more effective global effort to prevent the spread of future pandemics , invest in smart development , and eradicate extreme poverty .
let us live by their example . we can acknowledge that oppression will always be with us , and still strive for justice . we can admit the intractability of depravation , and still strive for dignity . clear-eyed , we can understand that there will be war , and still strive for peace . we can do that -- for that is the story of human progress ; that 's the hope of all the world ; and at this moment of challenge , that must be our work here on earth .
president obama : fondly , i hope . i still have 20 months in office so i ’ ve got a lot of work still to do before i can start thinking about looking backwards . i ’ m still very much focused on what ’ s in front of me .
you know , unlike john mccain , i will stop giving tax breaks to companies that ship jobs overseas , and i will start giving them to companies that create good jobs right here in america .
and this legislation met that test . and too many senators failed theirs . i 've heard some say that blocking this step would be a victory . and my question is , a victory for who ? a victory for what ? all that happened today was the preservation of the loophole that lets dangerous criminals buy guns without a background check . that didn ’ t make our kids safer . victory for not doing something that 90 percent of americans , 80 percent of republicans , the vast majority of your constituents wanted to get done ? it begs the question , who are we here to represent ?
it is the nature of our imperfect world that we are forced to learn these lessons over and over again . conflict and repression will endure so long as some people refuse to do unto others as we would have them do unto us . yet that is precisely why we have built institutions like this -- to bind our fates together , to help us recognize ourselves in each other -- because those who came before us believed that peace is preferable to war , and freedom is preferable to suppression , and prosperity is preferable to poverty . that ’ s the message that comes not from capitals , but from citizens , from our people .
one senator who has reached across the aisle recently is marco rubio , but i don ’ t know about 2016. i mean , the guy has not even finished a single term in the senate and he thinks he 's ready to be president . kids these days .
now , i didn ’ t come here to make a really long speech . i know you 're hearing that . it ’ s like , yeah , it ’ s hot ! what i really wanted to do was come down and shake some hands . i came here for a simple reason -- to say thank you on behalf of america . this has been an historic week in the life of our nation . thanks to the incredible skill and courage of countless individuals -- intelligence , military -- over many years , the terrorist leader who struck our nation on 9/11 will never threaten america again .
beyond the afghan theater , we only target al qaeda and its associated forces . and even then , the use of drones is heavily constrained . america does not take strikes when we have the ability to capture individual terrorists ; our preference is always to detain , interrogate , and prosecute . america can not take strikes wherever we choose ; our actions are bound by consultations with partners , and respect for state sovereignty .
this year marks the 15th anniversary of poland ’ s membership in nato . we honor polish service in the balkans , in iraq and afghanistan . and as americans , we are proud to call poland one of our strongest and closest allies .
it ’ s about making sure our workers and businesses have the skills and the tools they need to compete better , faster , and smarter than anybody else . that 's what we ’ re about . we are america , and we don ’ t just keep up with changing times , we set the pace for changing times . we adapt ; we innovate ; we lead the way forward .
it 's tempting to look back on these moments and assume that our progress was inevitable -- that america was always destined to succeed . but when the union was turned back at bull run and the allies first landed at omaha beach , victory was very much in doubt . when the market crashed on black tuesday and civil rights marchers were beaten on bloody sunday , the future was anything but certain . these were the times that tested the courage of our convictions , and the strength of our union . and despite all our divisions and disagreements , our hesitations and our fears , america prevailed because we chose to move forward as one nation , and one people .
thank you , iowa . thank you so much . thank you so much . to -- to the great governor of iowa and lieutenant governor of iowa ; to my dear friend tom harkin for the outstanding work that he does ; to the congressional delegation of iowa that is doing outstanding work ; and to nancy pelosi , madam speaker , thank you all for the wonderful welcome and the wonderful hospitality .
and now it ’ s our turn . we know what it takes to compete for the jobs and industries of our time . we need to out-innovate , out-educate , and out-build the rest of the world . we have to make america the best place on earth to do business . we need to take responsibility for our deficit and reform our government . that ’ s how our people will prosper . that ’ s how we ’ ll win the future . and tonight , i ’ d like to talk about how we get there .
i 'm grateful that tim , larry , christina , and melody have accepted my nomination , and i am looking forward to working closely with them in the months ahead . that work starts today , because the truth is , we do not have a minute to waste . right now , our economy is trapped in a vicious cycle : the turmoil on wall street means a new round of belt-tightening for families and businesses on main street , and as folks produce less and consume less , that just deepens the problems in our financial markets . these extraordinary stresses on our financial system require extraordinary policy responses . and my administration will honor the public commitments made by the current administration to address this crisis .
we know about the father who raised two remarkable , caring , beautiful daughters , even after they tried to discourage him from running for president , saying , `` dad , you ’ re not as cool as you think you are . '' mr. president , i can relate . and now we see president bush , the grandfather , just beginning to spoil his brand-new granddaughter .
you see , there are heroes all around us , all the time . they walk by us on the sidewalk , and they sit next to us in class . they pass us in the aisle wearing an orange apron . they come to our table at a restaurant and ask us what we ’ d like to order .
earlier this week , i was actually interviewed by one of your members , jeff goldberg . and jeff reminded me that he once called me “ the first jewish president. ” now , since some people still seem to be wondering about my faith -- i should make clear this was an honorary title . but i was flattered .
and as we restore our common prosperity , we must stand up for our common security . as we meet here today , nato has still embarked on its first mission overseas in afghanistan , and my administration has just completed a review of our policy in that region .
and earlier this year , the great folks at honor flight austin brought richard to washington , d.c. for the first time . and he and his fellow veterans paid their respects at the world war ii memorial . and then they visited the memorial to martin luther king , jr. and as richard sat in a wheelchair beneath that great marble statue , he wept . and the crowd that gathered around him wept , too , to see one of the oldest living veterans of world war ii bear witness to a day -- to the progress of a nation -- he thought might never come .
and if there ’ s any country in the world that shows the power of human beings to affect change , this is the one . you ’ ve shown us how a prisoner can become a president .
and this year , seniors who fall in the coverage gap known as the doughnut hole will start getting some help . they ’ ll receive 250 dollars to help pay for prescriptions , and that will , over time , fill in the doughnut hole . and i want seniors to know , despite what some have said , these reforms will not cut your guaranteed benefits . in fact , under this law , americans on medicare will receive free preventive care without co-payments or deductibles . that begins this year .
and , by the way , i think it 's very important for me to note that there are a whole bunch of folks up in congress and others who made this statement , and they were entirely sincere about it . and the fact that you 've got this percentage of people who have had this impact -- i want them to know that their senator or congressman , they were making representations based on what i told them and what this white house and our administrative staff told them . and so it 's not on them . it 's on us . but it is something that we intend to fix .
now let me be clear : america can not and should not seek to impose any system of government on any other country , nor would we presume to choose which party or individual should run a country . and we have n't always done what we should have on that front . even as we meet here today , america supports now the restoration of the democratically-elected president of honduras , even though he has strongly opposed american policies . we do so not because we agree with him . we do so because we respect the universal principle that people should choose their own leaders , whether they are leaders we agree with or not .
it is simply not sustainable to have a 21st-century financial system that is governed by 20th-century rules and regulations that allowed the recklessness of a few to threaten the entire economy . it is not sustainable to have an economy where in one year , 40 percent of our corporate profits came from a financial sector that was based on inflated home prices , maxed-out credit cards , over-leveraged banks and overvalued assets . it 's not sustainable to have an economy where the incomes of the top 1 percent has skyrocketed while the typical working household has seen their incomes decline by nearly $ 2,000 . that 's just not a sustainable model for long-term prosperity .
but we did come to know her in the early days of my campaign . and we came to love her , as so many loved her . we came to love her stories . and we loved her smile . and we loved those hats -- that she wore like a crown -- regal . in the white house , she was a regular . she came by not once , not twice -- 21 times she stopped by the white house . took part in our discussions around health care reform in her final months .
have you bitten off more than you can chew president obama : no . you may be surprised by that response , jim . let me take them in turn . first of all , with respect to cuba , there is majority support of our policy in the united states , and there ’ s overwhelming support for our policy in cuba . i think people recognize that if you keep on doing something for 50 years and it doesn ’ t work , you should try something new .
poorly secured nuclear material in the former soviet union , or secrets from a scientist in pakistan could help build a bomb that detonates in paris . the poppies in afghanistan come to berlin in the form of the heroin . the poverty and violence in somalia breeds the terror of tomorrow . the genocide in darfur shames the conscience of us all .
even as we mourn 29 lives lost , we also remember 29 lives lived . up at 4:30 a.m. , 5:00 in the morning at the latest , they began their day , as they worked , in darkness . in coveralls and hard-toe boots , a hardhat over their heads , they would sit quietly for their hour-long journey , five miles into a mountain , the only light the lamp on their caps , or the glow from the mantrip they rode in .
if you ’ re a big bank or risky financial institution , you now have to write out a “ living will ” that details exactly how you ’ ll pay the bills if you fail , so that taxpayers are never again on the hook for wall street ’ s mistakes . there are also limits on the size of banks and new abilities for regulators to dismantle a firm that is going under . the new law bans banks from making risky bets with their customers ’ deposits , and it takes away big bonuses and paydays from failed ceos , while giving shareholders a say on executive salaries .
because they ’ re hard and they ’ re complicated issues . but if we keep on working on them together , and focus on concrete and pragmatic steps that we can take to boost our cybersecurity and our privacy , i 'm confident that both our privacy will be more secure and our information , our networks , public health , public safety will be more secure . we ’ re going to keep on at this as a government , but we 're also going to be working with the private sector to detect , prevent , defend , deter against attacks , and to recover quickly from any disruptions or damage . and as long as i ’ m president , protecting america ’ s digital infrastructure is going to remain a top national security priority .
and when regina 's clinic was about to open for the third time , and a fire burned it to the ground before it could serve the first patient , well , you can guess what dr. benjamin did . with help from her community , she is rebuilding it again . one disabled patient brought her an envelope with $ 20 inside . another elderly man said simply , `` maybe i can help . i got a hammer . ''
but part of humility is also recognizing in modern , complicated , diverse societies , the functioning of these rights , the concern for the protection of these rights calls for each of us to exercise civility and restraint and judgment .
thank you very much , guys . that 's it . i -- thank you . hello , midshipmen ! well , thank you , governor o ’ malley , for your kind introduction and the great support that maryland gives this academy . to secretary mabus , admiral greenert , general paxton -- thank you all for your incredible leadership of our extraordinary navy and marine corps teams .
see , the diploma you ’ re about to receive stands for something more than the investment you made in yourselves . it ’ s the result of an investment made by generations before you ; an investment in that radical yet simple idea that america is a place -- the place -- where you can make it if you try . that ’ s the ideal that has made this country -- that ’ s the idea that ’ s represented by that one flag that all of you cheered for ; that ’ s what has made us a shining light to the world .
now , yesterday , i met with your wonderful new president , dilma rousseff , and talked about how we can strengthen the partnership between our governments . but today , i want to speak directly to the brazilian people about how we can strengthen the friendship between our nations . i ’ ve come here to share some ideas because i want to speak of the values that we share , the hopes that we have in common , and the difference that we can make together .
for example , one of the most important things congress has to do in the next couple weeks is to raise what 's called the debt ceiling . and it 's important to understand what this is . this is a routine vote . congress has taken this vote 45 times to raise the debt ceiling since ronald reagan took office . it does not cost taxpayers a single dime . it does not grow our deficits by a single dime . it does not authorize anybody to spend any new money whatsoever . all it does is authorize the treasury to pay the bills on what congress has already spent .
here , for two centuries , this gate stood tall as the world around it convulsed -- through the rise and fall of empires ; through revolutions and republics ; art and music and science that reflected the height of human endeavor , but also war and carnage that exposed the depths of man ’ s cruelty to man .
and because of the service of the men and women of the united states military , because of the progress you ’ re making , we look forward to a new phase next year , the beginning of a transition to afghan responsibility .
question : tougher sanctions in europe -- will you push for them ? president obama : well , i think that this certainly will be a wake-up call for europe and the world that there are consequences to an escalating conflict in eastern ukraine ; that it is not going to be localized , it is not going to be contained . what we ’ ve seen here is -- just in one country alone , our great allies , the dutch , 150 or more of their citizens being killed . and that , i think , sadly brings home the degree to which the stakes are high for europe , not simply for the ukrainian people , and that we have to be firm in our resolve in making sure that we are supporting ukraine in its efforts to bring about a just cease-fire and that we can move towards a political solution to this .
you start telling yourself , bishop , i ca n't do something . i ca n't read . i ca n't go to college . i ca n't start a business . i ca n't run for congress .
and yet our minds fasten on that single moment on the bus -- ms. parks alone in that seat , clutching her purse , staring out a window , waiting to be arrested . that moment tells us something about how change happens , or doesn ’ t happen ; the choices we make , or don ’ t make . “ for now we see through a glass , darkly , ” scripture says , and it ’ s true . whether out of inertia or selfishness , whether out of fear or a simple lack of moral imagination , we so often spend our lives as if in a fog , accepting injustice , rationalizing inequity , tolerating the intolerable .
but we remember her not solely for all she did during the civil rights movement . we remember her for all she did over a lifetime , behind the scenes , to broaden the movement ’ s reach . to shine a light on stable families and tight-knit communities . to make us see the drive for civil rights and women ’ s rights not as a separate struggle , but as part of a larger movement to secure the rights of all humanity , regardless of gender , regardless of race , regardless of ethnicity .
i ’ m glad that my outstanding young ambassador to israel , dan shapiro , is in the house . i understand that dan is perfecting his hebrew on his new assignment , and i appreciate his constant outreach to the israeli people . and i ’ m also pleased that we ’ re joined by so many israeli officials , including ambassador michael oren . and tomorrow , i ’ m very much looking forward to welcoming prime minister netanyahu and his delegation back to the white house .
i will double our annual investments to meet these challenges to $ 50 billion by 2012. and i will support a $ 2 billion global education fund to counter the radical madrasas – often funded by money from within saudi arabia– that have filled young minds with messages of hate . we must work for a world where every child , everywhere , is taught to build and not to destroy . and as we lead we will ask for more from our friends in europe and asia as well – more support for our diplomacy , more support for multilateral peacekeeping , and more support to rebuild societies ravaged by conflict .
the men and women who built this institution understood that peace is more than just the absence of war . a lasting peace -- for nations and for individuals -- depends on a sense of justice and opportunity , of dignity and freedom . it depends on struggle and sacrifice , on compromise , and on a sense of common humanity .
for we , the people , understand that our country can not succeed when a shrinking few do very well and a growing many barely make it . we believe that america ’ s prosperity must rest upon the broad shoulders of a rising middle class . we know that america thrives when every person can find independence and pride in their work ; when the wages of honest labor liberate families from the brink of hardship . we are true to our creed when a little girl born into the bleakest poverty knows that she has the same chance to succeed as anybody else , because she is an american ; she is free , and she is equal , not just in the eyes of god but also in our own .
humanity has been grappling with these questions throughout human history . and lest we get on our high horse and think this is unique to some other place , remember that during the crusades and the inquisition , people committed terrible deeds in the name of christ . in our home country , slavery and jim crow all too often was justified in the name of christ . michelle and i returned from india -- an incredible , beautiful country , full of magnificent diversity -- but a place where , in past years , religious faiths of all types have , on occasion , been targeted by other peoples of faith , simply due to their heritage and their beliefs -- acts of intolerance that would have shocked gandhiji , the person who helped to liberate that nation .
now , it is our fervent hope that in the coming weeks , chrysler will find a viable partner and gm will develop a business plan that will put it on a path to profitability without endless support from american taxpayer . in the meantime , we 're taking steps to spur demand for american cars and provide relief for autoworkers and their communities . and we will continue to reaffirm this nation 's commitment to a 21st-century american auto industry that creates new jobs and builds the fuel-efficient cars and trucks that will carry us toward a clean-energy future .
up at their tiny post , ryan and his team were being pounded . almost instantly , every one of them was wounded . ryan was hit by shrapnel in the arm and both legs and was bleeding badly . already , three american soldiers in that valley had fallen . and then a fourth .
and here in afghanistan you ’ ve gone on the offensive . and the american people back home are noticing . we have seen a huge increase in support in -- stateside , because people understand the kinds of sacrifices that you guys are making , and the clarity of mission that you ’ re bringing to bear .
dick durbin couldn ’ t make it today , but he sends his best . and we love dick . he ’ s doing a great job . and we ’ ve got one of my favorite neighbors , the senator from missouri , claire mccaskill , in the house , because we ’ re going to missouri later this afternoon .
it is true that there are mexicans all across this country who are making courageous sacrifices for the security of your country ; that in the countryside and the neighborhoods not far from here , there are those who are still struggling to give their children a better life . but what ’ s also clear is that a new mexico is emerging .
there 's new energy to harness , new jobs to be created , new schools to build , and threats to meet , alliances to repair the road ahead will be long . our climb will be steep . we may not get there in one year or even in one term . but , america , i have never been more hopeful than i am tonight that we will get there . i promise you , we as a people will get there .
i know that your government is eager , assuming that the recommendation is approved -- is to remove it and is approved by you -- that we move ahead quickly with embassies . the cubans have raised concerns about that 45 days and how something could go wrong in those 45 days .
when i was in the senate , i supported the efforts of senators byrd and rockefeller to try and improve mine safety , but it ’ s clear that more needs to be done . and that ’ s why i ’ ve asked my secretary of labor as well as the head of the mine safety and health administration to give me a preliminary report next week on what went wrong and why it went wrong so badly , so that we can take the steps necessary to prevent such accidents in the future .
this institution can still play an indispensable role in the advance of human rights . it ’ s time to welcome the efforts of u.n. women to protect the rights of women around the globe .
once iraq has a new government , the united states will work with it and other countries in the region to provide increased support to deal with this humanitarian crisis and counterterrorism challenge . none of iraq ’ s neighbors have an interest in this terrible suffering or instability .
now , fortunately , that ’ s not a future that we have to accept , because there ’ s another view about how we build a strong middle class in this country -- a view that ’ s truer to our history , a vision that ’ s been embraced in the past by people of both parties for more than 200 years .
so local motors solicited design ideas on their website , chose the best out of 162 that it received , built and brought this new vehicle here ahead of schedule . we just took a look at it .
hello , michigan ! thank you . thank you so much . first of all , give joe a big round of applause for the wonderful introduction . we 've got some special guests here -- now , if everybody has chairs , go ahead and use them . feel free . we 've got some special guests here today that i just want to acknowledge . all of you are special , but these folks i want to make sure that you have a chance to see them .
now , what makes this moment different is that this time -- for the first time -- key stakeholders are aligning not against , but in favor of reform . they 're coming out -- they 're coming together out of a recognition that while reform will take everyone in our health care community to do their part -- everybody is going to have to pitch in -- ultimately , everybody will benefit .
so , some things we can do on our own . other steps will require congressional action . today you passed reform that will speed up the outdated patent process , so that entrepreneurs can turn a new idea into a new business as quickly as possible .
it 's a fact , and the truth is most people know that it 's a fact . and yet , as clear as it is that our system badly needs reform , reform is not inevitable . there 's a sense out there among some , and perhaps some members who are gathered here today of the ama , that as bad as our current system may be -- and it 's pretty bad -- the devil we know is better than the devil we do n't . there 's a fear of change -- a worry that we may lose what works about our health care system while trying to fix what does n't .
so the bottom line is this : we don ’ t yet have a deal . it may be that iran can not say yes to a good deal . i have repeatedly said that i would rather have no deal than a bad deal . but if we ’ re successful in negotiating , then , in fact , this will be the best deal possible to prevent iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon . nothing else comes close . sanctions won ’ t do it . even military action would not be as successful as the deal that we have put forward .
and on monday , my administration will send to congress our blueprint for an updated elementary and secondary education act to overhaul no child left behind . what this plan recognizes is that while the federal government can play a leading role in encouraging the reforms and high standards we need , the impetus for that change will come from states , and from local schools and school districts . so , yes , we set a high bar -- but we also provide educators the flexibility to reach it .
we can stop talking about how great teachers are and start rewarding them for their greatness by giving them more pay and more support . we can do this with our new majority . we can harness the ingenuity of farmers and scientists , citizens and entrepreneurs to free this nation from the tyranny of oil and save our planet from a point of no return .
of course , so long as iran fails to meet its obligations , this problem remains unresolved . the effective implementation of our policy is not enough -- we must accomplish our objective . and in that effort , i firmly believe that an opportunity still remains for diplomacy -- backed by pressure -- to succeed .
but what you ’ ve never seen is the notion that has been presented , so far at least , by the republicans that deficit reduction -- we ’ ll only count spending cuts ; that we will raise the deficit -- or the debt ceiling dollar for dollar on spending cuts . there are a whole set of rules that have been established that are impossible to meet without doing severe damage to the economy .
as you meet the missions we ask of you , we ’ re going to make sure you ’ re trained and equipped to succeed . that ’ s why we halted reductions in the navy . that ’ s why we increased the size of the marine corps . that ’ s why we ’ re investing in the capabilities and technologies of tomorrow . and as we come up on the 100th anniversary of naval aviation next year , we ’ re committed to the next generation of aircraft . we ’ re going to keep you the best-trained , best-led , best-equipped military that the world has ever known .
and that 's the one thing that these families should have inspired in all of us . i still do n't know how they have been able to muster up the strength to do what they ’ ve doing over the last several weeks , last several months .
and that ’ s why reform will rein in excess and help ensure that these kinds of transactions take place in the light of day now , there ’ s been a great deal of concern about these changes . so i want to reiterate : there is a legitimate role for these financial instruments in our economy . they can help allay risk and spur investment .
that 's some tough competition . those kids are hungry . they 're working hard . and you 'll need to be prepared for it and as a country , we need all of our young people to be ready . we ca n't just have some young people successful . we 've got to have every young person contributing ; earning those high school diplomas and then earning those college diplomas , or getting certified in a trade or profession . we ca n't succeed without it .
right now , all across america , there are amazing discoveries being made . if we supported these discoveries on a national level , if we committed ourselves to investing in these possibilities , just imagine what it could do for a town like galesburg . ten or twenty years down the road , that old maytag plant could re-open its doors as an ethanol refinery that turned corn into fuel . down the street , a biotechnology research lab could open up on the cusp of discovering a cure for cancer . and across the way , a new auto company could be busy churning out electric cars . the new jobs created would be filled by american workers trained with new skills and a world-class education .
and i stood and i announced that i was running for the presidency . and there were a lot of commentators , as they are prone to do , who questioned the audacity of a young man like myself , have n't been in washington too long .
and it means reforming a weak and outdated regulatory system so that we can better withstand financial shocks and better protect consumers , investors , and businesses from the reckless greed and risk-taking that must never endanger our prosperity again
“ unity is the great need of the hour. ” that ’ s what dr. king said . it is the great need of this hour as well , not because it sounds pleasant , not because it makes us feel good , but because it 's the only way we can overcome the essential deficit that exits in this country
we 're up against the conventional thinking that says your ability to lead as president comes from longevity in washington or proximity to the white house . but we know that real leadership is about candor and judgment and the ability to rally americans from all walks of life around a common purpose , a higher purpose .
and we know we can ’ t do this by ourselves . it comes as a shock at a certain point where you realize , no matter how much you love these kids , you can ’ t do it by yourself . that this job of keeping our children safe , and teaching them well , is something we can only do together , with the help of friends and neighbors , the help of a community , and the help of a nation . and in that way , we come to realize that we bear a responsibility for every child because we ’ re counting on everybody else to help look after ours ; that we ’ re all parents ; that they ’ re all our children .
i know the argument made by some that it 's unfair for countries like the united states to ask developing nations and emerging economies like india to reduce your dependence on the same fossil fuels that helped power our growth for more than a century . but here 's the truth : even if countries like the united states curb our emissions , if countries that are growing rapidly like india -- with soaring energy needs -- do n't also embrace cleaner fuels , then we do n't stand a chance against climate change .
so make no mistake , the tide of war is receding , and america is looking ahead to the future that we must build . from europe to the americas , we 've strengthened alliances and partnerships . at home , we ’ re investing in the sources of our long-term economic strength -- the education of our children , the training of our workers , the infrastructure that fuels commerce , the science and the research that leads to new breakthroughs . we ’ ve made hard decisions to cut our deficit and put our fiscal house in order -- and we will continue to do more . because our economic strength at home is the foundation of our leadership in the world , including here in the asia pacific .
this isn ’ t political grandstanding . this isn ’ t class warfare . this is simple math . this is simple math . these are real choices . these are real choices that we ’ ve got to make . and i ’ m pretty sure i know what most americans would choose . it ’ s not even close . and it ’ s time for us to do what ’ s right for our future .
and terrorist groups are all too happy to step into a void . they offer salaries to their foot soldiers so they can support their families . sometimes they offer social services -- schools , health clinics -- to do what local governments can not or will not do . they try to justify their violence in the name of fighting the injustice of corruption that steals from the people -- even while those terrorist groups end up committing even worse abuses , like kidnapping and human trafficking .
as a thought leader , larry has urged us to confront the problems of income inequality and the middle-class squeeze , consistently arguing that the key to a strong economy is a strong , vibrant , growing middle class . this idea is at the core of my own economic philosophy and will be the foundation of all of my economic policies .
it moves forward because of you . it moves forward because you reaffirmed the spirit that has triumphed over war and depression ; the spirit that has lifted this country from the depths of despair to the great heights of hope -- the belief that while each of us will pursue our own individual dreams , we are an american family , and we rise or fall together , as one nation , and as one people .
pass this jobs bill , and we can put people to work rebuilding america . everyone here knows we have badly decaying roads and bridges all over the country . our highways are clogged with traffic . our skies are the most congested in the world . it ’ s an outrage .
rosa parks ’ s singular act of disobedience launched a movement . the tired feet of those who walked the dusty roads of montgomery helped a nation see that to which it had once been blind . it is because of these men and women that i stand here today . it is because of them that our children grow up in a land more free and more fair ; a land truer to its founding creed .
and i want to thank everybody in this region who ’ s rolled up their sleeves and pitched in to help -– from the national guard putting their experience to the task , to the local officials and every citizen who loves this area and calls it home , every american who ’ s traveled to the region to lend a hand . if any american is looking for ways to volunteer and help , then we ’ ve put links to that information on our website , as well -- that 's whitehouse.gov .
starting this summer , federal agencies will partner with industries to boost manufacturing in areas critical to our national security . i just saw an example backstage . the defense department scientists -- we call it darpa -- the folks who brought us stealth technology and , by the way , who brought us the internet -- wanted to see if it was possible to design defense systems cheaper and faster . so they found a small company in arizona called local motors , and they gave them a test : you have one month to design a new combat support vehicle , and you ’ ve got three months to build it .
but with only 2 percent of the world ’ s oil reserves , oil isn ’ t enough . this country needs an all-out , all-of-the-above strategy that develops every available source of american energy . a strategy that ’ s cleaner , cheaper , and full of new jobs .
we know the fault lines because we 've been imprisoned by them for years . these international discussions have essentially taken place now for almost two decades , and we have very little to show for it other than an increased acceleration of the climate change phenomenon . the time for talk is over . this is the bottom line : we can embrace this accord , take a substantial step forward , continue to refine it and build upon its foundation . we can do that , and everyone who is in this room will be part of a historic endeavor -- one that makes life better for our children and our grandchildren .
“ we are all americans , ” teddy roosevelt told them that day . “ our common interests are as broad as the continent. ” in the final years of his life , roosevelt took that same message all across this country , from tiny osawatomie to the heart of new york city , believing that no matter where he went , no matter who he was talking to , everybody would benefit from a country in which everyone gets a fair chance .
i want to live up to her expectations . i want our democracy to be as good as christina imagined it . i want america to be as good as she imagined it . all of us -– we should do everything we can to make sure this country lives up to our children ’ s expectations .
we will no longer permit the use of evidence -- as evidence statements that have been obtained using cruel , inhuman , or degrading interrogation methods . we will no longer place the burden to prove that hearsay is unreliable on the opponent of the hearsay .
my fellow americans , we , too , are a strong , tight-knit family . we , too , have made it through some hard times . fifteen years into this new century , we have picked ourselves up , dusted ourselves off , and begun again the work of remaking america . we have laid a new foundation . a brighter future is ours to write . let ’ s begin this new chapter together -- and let ’ s start the work right now .
here in india , two successive governments led by different parties have recognized that deeper partnership with america is both natural and necessary . and in the united states , both of my predecessors -- one a democrat , one a republican -- worked to bring us closer , leading to increased trade and a landmark civil nuclear agreement .
he tells us that there 's power in hope . as lincoln organized the forces arrayed against slavery , he was heard to say this : `` of strange , discordant , and even hostile elements , we gathered from the four winds , and formed and fought to battle through . `` ¹
we should be known for creating and selling products all around the world that are stamped with three proud words : made in america today , manufacturers and other companies are setting up shop in the places with the best infrastructure to ship their products , move their workers , communicate with the rest of the world . and that ’ s why the over 1 million construction workers who lost their jobs when the housing market collapsed , they shouldn ’ t be sitting at home with nothing to do . they should be rebuilding our roads and our bridges , laying down faster railroads and broadband , modernizing our schools -- all the things other countries are already doing to attract good jobs and businesses to their shores .
so it is with america . each time i look at that flag , i ’ m reminded that our destiny is stitched together like those 50 stars and those 13 stripes . no one built this country on their own . this nation is great because we built it together . this nation is great because we worked as a team . this nation is great because we get each other ’ s backs . and if we hold fast to that truth , in this moment of trial , there is no challenge too great ; no mission too hard . as long as we are joined in common purpose , as long as we maintain our common resolve , our journey moves forward , and our future is hopeful , and the state of our union will always be strong .
audience member : that ’ s all right . the president : well , here ’ s the reason it ’ s all right . here ’ s the reason it ’ s all right . it wouldn ’ t be all right if we weren ’ t paying for it -- and by the way , that 's what a previous congress did with the prescription drug plan . all they did was they gave the benefits and they didn ’ t pay for it .
it 's a story that has n't made me the most conventional of candidates . but it is a story that has seared into my genetic makeup the idea that this nation is more than the sum of its parts -- that out of many , we are truly one
now , there will be many different opinions and ideas about how to achieve reform , and that is why i ’ m bringing together businesses and workers , doctors and health care providers , democrats and republicans to begin work on this issue next week .
to you -- their families and colleagues -- to all americans , know this : their sacrifice will never be forgotten . we will bring to justice those who took them from us . we will stand fast against the violence on our diplomatic missions . we will continue to do everything in our power to protect americans serving overseas , whether that means increasing security at our diplomatic posts , working with host countries , which have an obligation to provide security , and making it clear that justice will come to those who harm americans .
john mccain has spent a lot of time talking about trips to iraq in the last few weeks , but maybe if he spent some time taking trips to the cities and towns that have been hardest hit by this economy -- cities in michigan , and ohio , and right here in minnesota -- he ’ d understand the kind of change that people are looking for .
“ would you rather reduce deficits and interest rates by raising revenue from those who are not now paying their fair share , or would you rather accept larger budget deficits , higher interest rates , and higher unemployment ? and i think i know your answer . ”
q can a package be discussed to allow an assault weapons ban ? the president : i ’ ll present the details later in the week . chuck todd , nbc . q thank you , sir . as you know , the senate democrats , harry reid sent you a letter begging you , essentially , to take -- consider some sort of executive action on this debt ceiling issue . i know you ’ ve said you ’ re not negotiating on it . your administration has ruled out the various ideas that have been out there -- the 14th amendment . but just this morning , one of the house democratic leaders , jim clyburn , asked you to use the 14th amendment and even said , sometimes that ’ s what it takes . he brought up the emancipation proclamation as saying it took executive action when congress wouldn ’ t act , and he compared the debt ceiling to that . so are you considering a plan b , and if not , why not ?
my administration will take an approach to homeland security guided by risk . i will establish a quadrennial review at the department of homeland security – just like at the pentagon – to undertake a top to bottom review of the threats we face and our ability to confront them . and i will develop a comprehensive national infrastructure protection plan that draws on both local know-how and national priorities .
so american oil is booming . the oil industry is doing just fine . with record profits and rising production , i ’ m not worried about the big oil companies . with high oil prices around the world , they ’ ve got more than enough incentive to produce even more oil . that ’ s why i think it ’ s time they got by without more help from taxpayers who are already having a tough enough time paying the bills and filling up their gas tank . and i think it ’ s curious that some folks in congress , who are the first to belittle investments in new sources of energy , are the ones that are fighting the hardest to maintain these giveaways for the oil companies .
i understand those feelings . i understand the frustration and sometimes anger that so many folks feel as they struggle to stay afloat . i get letters from folks around the country every day ; i read 10 a night out of the 40,000 that we receive . and there are stories of hardship and desperation , in some cases , pleading for help : i need a job . i 'm about to lose my home . i do n't have health care -- it 's about to cause my family to be bankrupt . sometimes you get letters from children : my mama or my daddy have lost their jobs , is there something you can do to help ? ten letters like that a day we read .
what this trade agreement would do is open the doors to the higher-skill , higher-wage jobs of the future -- jobs that we excel at . it would make sure our manufacturers who are operating at the higher end of the value chain are able to access these growing markets . and the fact is , over the past few years , our manufacturers have been steadily creating jobs for the first time since the 1990s -- under my administration . after more than a decade away from the top spot , business leaders around the world have declared the united states is the world ’ s number one place to invest for a third year in a row . third year in a row .
we saw the memorial to all the survivors -- a steel plate , as chancellor merkel said , that is heated to 37 degrees celsius , the temperature of the human body ; a reminder -- where people were deemed inhuman because of their differences -- of the mark that we all share .
i ’ ve asked my economic team to develop recommendations for this plan and to consult with congress , the current administration , and the federal reserve on immediate economic developments over the next two months . i ’ ve requested that they brief me on these matters on a daily basis . and in the coming weeks , i will provide the american people and the incoming congress with an overview of their initial recommendations . it is my hope that the new congress will begin work on an aggressive economic recovery plan when they convene in early january so that our administration can hit the ground running .
to summarize , the united states has a hard-earned humility when it comes to our ability to determine events inside other countries . the notion of american empire may be useful propaganda , but it isn ’ t borne out by america ’ s current policy or by public opinion .
and i ’ ll be honest with you , when i was done , i did not think i ’ d made any difference -- i was even a little embarrassed . and i thought to myself -- what ’ s a bunch of university kids doing in california that is somehow going to make a difference ? it felt too distant from what people were going through in places like soweto .
and nowhere is the promise of innovation greater than in american-made energy . over the last three years , we ’ ve opened millions of new acres for oil and gas exploration , and tonight , i ’ m directing my administration to open more than 75 percent of our potential offshore oil and gas resources . right now -- right now -- american oil production is the highest that it ’ s been in eight years . that ’ s right -- eight years . not only that -- last year , we relied less on foreign oil than in any of the past 16 years .
now , along these same lines , my administration is also confronting challenges to what is known as the `` state secrets '' privilege . this is a doctrine that allows the government to challenge legal cases involving secret programs . it 's been used by many past presidents -- republican and democrat -- for many decades . and while this principle is absolutely necessary in some circumstances to protect national security , i am concerned that it has been over-used . it is also currently the subject of a wide range of lawsuits . so let me lay out some principles here . we must not protect information merely because it reveals the violation of a law or embarrassment to the government . and that 's why my administration is nearing completion of a thorough review of this practice .
there is an element in the re-adjustment of our financial system more important than currency , more important than gold , and that is the confidence of the people themselves . confidence and courage are the essentials of success in carrying out our plan .
and to make room for these investments , we ’ re going to have to cut whatever spending we can do without . we ’ ve got a real issue with debts and deficit , and so we ’ ve got to live within our means . and that means that we ’ ve got to cut out things that aren ’ t adding to growth and opportunity in order to invest in those things that are .
i stand before you as our hearts still ache over the tragedy in aurora , colorado . yesterday i was in aurora , with families whose loss is hard to imagine -- with the wounded , who are fighting to recover ; with a community and a military base in the midst of their grief . and they told me of the loved ones they lost . and here today , it 's fitting to recall those who wore our nation 's uniform :
so we should be proud of what we ’ ve done -- together . but of course , that should sharpen our resolve to do even more . because as long as native americans face unemployment and poverty rates that are far higher than the national average , we ’ re going to have more work to do . and i wake up every day focused on how to get this economy growing and create jobs for every american , faster . we ’ re working to rebuild an economy where no matter who you are , no matter what you look like -– black , white , latino , asian , native american –- you can make it if you try .
now , as i said before , congress should pass this bill knowing that every proposal is fully paid for . the american jobs act will not add to our nation ’ s debt . and today , i ’ m releasing a plan that details how to pay for the jobs bill while also paying down our debt over time .
so when you look at a country like vietnam , under this agreement , vietnam would actually , for the first time , have to raise its labor standards . it would have to set a minimum wage . it would have to pass safe workplace laws to protect its workers . it would even have to protect workers ’ freedom to form unions -- for the very first time . that would make a difference . that helps to level the playing field -- and it would be good for the workers in vietnam , even as it helps make sure that they ’ re not undercutting competition here in the united states .
so let me be clear : the united states strongly supports turkey 's bid to become a member of the european union . we speak not as members of the eu , but as close friends of both turkey and europe . turkey has been a resolute ally and a responsible partner in transatlantic and european institutions . turkey is bound to europe by more than the bridges over the bosphorous . centuries of shared history , culture , and commerce bring you together . europe gains by the diversity of ethnicity , tradition and faith -- it is not diminished by it . and turkish membership would broaden and strengthen europe 's foundation once more .
of course , some among you -- our vietnam veterans -- didn ’ t always receive that thanks , at least not on time . this past memorial day , i joined some of you at the wall to begin the 50th anniversary of the vietnam war . and it was another chance to say what should have been said all along : you did your duty , and you made us proud . and as this 50th anniversary continues , i ’ d ask all our vietnam vets to stand , or raise your hand , as we say : thank you and welcome home .
there was the time he courted orrin hatch 's support for the children 's health insurance program by having his chief of staff serenade the senator with a song orrin had written himself ; the time he delivered shamrock cookies on a china plate to sweeten up a crusty republican colleague ; and the famous story of how he won the support of a texas committee chairman on an immigration bill .
number one , let ’ s do more to expand trade and commerce that creates good jobs for our people . we already buy more of your exports than any country in the world . we sell more of our exports to mexico than we do to brazil , russia , india and china combined . mexican companies are investing more in the united states , and we ’ re the largest foreign investor in mexico -- because we believe in mexico and want to be a partner in your success .
my fellow americans , men and women like cory remind us that america has never come easy . our freedom , our democracy , has never been easy . sometimes we stumble ; we make mistakes ; we get frustrated or discouraged .
and somebody at the university of hawaii -- halfway around the world -- chose to give him that chance . and because that person gave a young man a chance , he met a young woman from kansas ; they had a son in the land where all things are possible .
tonight i ’ d like to lay out for you what our battle plan is going forward : what we ’ re doing to clean up the oil , what we ’ re doing to help our neighbors in the gulf , and what we ’ re doing to make sure that a catastrophe like this never happens again .
if you have n't lost a job , chances are you know somebody who has : a family member , a neighbor , a friend , a coworker . and you know that as difficult as the financial struggle can be , the sense of loss is about more than just a paycheck , because most of us define ourselves by the work we do .
president kennedy ’ s challenge endures -- “ to build a hemisphere where all people can hope for a sustainable , suitable standard of living , and all can live out their lives in dignity and in freedom. ” but half a century later , we must give meaning to this work in our own way , in a new way .
and so long as there are those who long for a better future , we will never abandon our pursuit of a just and lasting peace that ends this conflict with two states living side by side in peace and security . this is not idealism ; it is not naïveté . it is a hard-headed recognition that a genuine peace is the only path that will ultimately provide for a peaceful palestine as the homeland of the palestinian people and a jewish state of israel as the homeland of the jewish people . that is my goal , and i look forward to continuing to work with aipac to achieve that goal .
with this law , students who take out college loans will be provided clear and concise information about their obligations . and with this law , ordinary investors -– like seniors and folks saving for retirement –- will be able to receive more information about the costs and risks of mutual funds and other investment products , so that they can make better financial decisions as to what will work for them .
but it is worthwhile for us to keep up the prospect , the possibility of bridging divides and being just , and looking squarely at what ’ s possible but also necessary in order for israel to be the type of nation that it was intended to be in its earliest founding .
it gets worse . just this week , michele bachmann actually predicted that i would bring about the biblical end of days . now that 's a legacy ! that 's big . i mean , lincoln , washington -- they did n't do that .
i believe that force can be justified on humanitarian grounds , as it was in the balkans , or in other places that have been scarred by war . inaction tears at our conscience and can lead to more costly intervention later . that 's why all responsible nations must embrace the role that militaries with a clear mandate can play to keep the peace .
in america , we 're now taking unprecedented steps to jumpstart our economy and reform our system of regulation . but just as no nation can wall itself off from the consequences of a global crisis , no one can serve as the sole engine of global growth . you see , during your lives , something fundamental has changed . and while this crisis has shown us the risks that come with change , that risk is overwhelmed by opportunity .
now , understand –- there are a number of republicans who have been willing to work with us to pass real , commonsense immigration reform , and i want to thank them for their efforts . there are a number of republican leaders in the senate who did excellent work and deserve our thanks . and less visibly , there have been folks in the house who have been trying to work to get this done . and quietly , because it doesn ’ t always help me to praise them , i ’ ve expressed to them how much i appreciate the efforts that they ’ ve made .
and yet , even then , his faith held firm . `` i ’ m going to where i ’ ve always wanted to go , '' he told his brothers . `` and when i get up there , i ’ ll say a prayer for all of you . '' and then , as was taken away , he did something remarkable -- he blessed the guards . `` forgive them , '' he said , `` for they know not what they do . '' two days later , in that house of death , father kapaun breathed his last breath . his body was taken away , his grave unmarked , his remains unrecovered to this day .
reducing the waste and inefficiency in medicare and medicaid will pay for most of this plan . now , much of the rest would be paid for with revenues from the very same drug and insurance companies that stand to benefit from tens of millions of new customers . and this reform will charge insurance companies a fee for their most expensive policies , which will encourage them to provide greater value for the money -- an idea which has the support of democratic and republican experts . and according to these same experts , this modest change could help hold down the cost of health care for all of us in the long run .
it is now our generation ’ s task to carry on what those pioneers began . for our journey is not complete until our wives , our mothers and daughters can earn a living equal to their efforts .
and then he enrolled at morehouse a second time . but even with a job , he couldn ’ t keep up with the cost of tuition . so after getting his degree from that technical school , this father of three decided to come back to morehouse for a third time . as frederick says , “ god has a plan for my life , and he ’ s not done with me yet . ”
this is not some distant vision for america . the transition away from fossil fuels is going to take some time , but over the last year and a half , we ’ ve already taken unprecedented action to jumpstart the clean energy industry . as we speak , old factories are reopening to produce wind turbines , people are going back to work installing energy-efficient windows , and small businesses are making solar panels . consumers are buying more efficient cars and trucks , and families are making their homes more energy-efficient . scientists and researchers are discovering clean energy technologies that someday will lead to entire new industries .
that 's a mistake and it 's one that we 'll help to correct . through this fund , schools will have the chance to borrow at a more affordable rate to modernize facilities , and they 'll be building on the funds in the recovery plan that are already helping to renovate schools , including community colleges all across the country .
for we know that our patchwork heritage is a strength , not a weakness . we are a nation of christians and muslims , jews and hindus -- and non-believers . we are shaped by every language and culture , drawn from every end of this earth ; and because we have tasted the bitter swill of civil war and segregation , and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and more united , we can not help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass ; that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve ; that as the world grows smaller , our common humanity shall reveal itself ; and that america must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace .
the people of this country work hard to meet their responsibilities . the question tonight is whether we ’ ll meet ours . the question is whether , in the face of an ongoing national crisis , we can stop the political circus and actually do something to help the economy . the question is -- the question is whether we can restore some of the fairness and security that has defined this nation since our beginning .
so , yes , we ’ re emerging from the worst economic crisis since the great depression . too many folks are still out of work here in florida and around the country . yes , we ’ re a nation at war with adversaries who will stop at nothing to strike our homeland and would kill innocent people , women and children , with no compunction . yes , we ’ re now battling the worst economic -- environmental disaster in american history . any one of these challenges alone would test our country . confronting them all at once might overwhelm a lesser nation .
i know republicans are still sorting out what happened in 2012 , but one thing they all agree on is they need to do a better job reaching out to minorities . and look , call me self-centered , but i can think of one minority they could start with . hello ? think of me as a trial run , you know ? see how it goes .
already we 're dramatically cutting down on the paperwork that saddles businesses with huge administrative costs . we 're improving the way fda evaluates things like medical devices , to get innovative and lifesaving treatments to market faster . and the epa , based on the need for further scientific analysis , delayed the greenhouse gas permitting rules for biomass .
it took the awful carnage of two world wars to shift our thinking . the leaders who built the united nations were not naïve ; they did not think this body could eradicate all wars . but in the wake of millions dead and continents in rubble , and with the development of nuclear weapons that could annihilate a planet , they understood that humanity could not survive the course it was on . and so they gave us this institution , believing that it could allow us to resolve conflicts , enforce rules of behavior , and build habits of cooperation that would grow stronger over time .
but i just want to remind everybody , we did not wage this long and contentious battle just around a website . that ’ s not what this was about . we waged this battle to make sure that millions of americans in the wealthiest nation on earth finally have the same chance to get the same security of affordable quality health care as anybody else . that ’ s what this is about . and the affordable care act has done that .
now , the good news is colorado has already chosen to do something about it . look , this is a state that has suffered the tragedy of two of the worst mass shootings in our history -- 14 years ago this month in columbine , and just last year in aurora . but this is also a state that treasures its second amendment rights -- the state of proud hunters and sportsmen . and , by the way , the governor wanted me to remind everybody that there is outstanding elk hunting here in colorado . there ’ s a strong tradition of gun ownership that ’ s handed down from generation to generation , and it ’ s part of the fabric of people ’ s lives . and they treat gun ownership with reverence and respect .
and as people around the world began to hear the tale of the lowly colonists who overthrew an empire for the sake of an idea , they started to come . across oceans and the ages , they settled in boston and charleston , chicago and st. louis , kalamazoo and galesburg , to try and build their own american dream .
i know that the price of tuition is higher than ever , which is why if you are willing to volunteer in your neighborhood or give back to your community or serve your country , we will make sure that you can afford a higher education . and to encourage a renewed spirit of national service for this and future generations , i ask this congress to send me the bipartisan legislation that bears the name of senator orrin hatch as well as an american who has never stopped asking what he can do for his country – senator edward kennedy .
you know , over two weeks ago we saw the people of iowa proclaim that our time for change has come . but there were those who doubted this country 's desire for something new , who said iowa was a fluke , not to be repeated again . well , tonight the cynics who believed that what began in the snows of iowa was just an illusion were told a different story by the good people of south carolina .
and we will finalize a rocket design no later than 2015 and then begin to build it . and i want everybody to understand : that ’ s at least two years earlier than previously planned -- and that ’ s conservative , given that the previous program was behind schedule and over budget
it grew strength from the young people who rejected the myth of their generation 's apathy , who left their homes and their families for jobs that offered little pay and less sleep . it drew strength from the not-so-young people who braved the bitter cold and scorching heat to knock on doors of perfect strangers , and from the millions of americans who volunteered and organized and proved that more than two centuries later a government of the people , by the people , and for the people has not perished from the earth .
meanwhile , thanks to the hard work of students and educators , dropout rates are down , graduation rates are up . and after 13 long years , our war in afghanistan has come to a responsible end , and we ’ ve got more troops that were home this holiday season .
they are the words of citizens and they represent our greatest hope . you and i , as citizens , have the power to set this country ’ s course . you and i , as citizens , have the obligation to shape the debates of our time -- not only with the votes we cast , but with the voices we lift in defense of our most ancient values and enduring ideals .
if anyone wants to see the difference between freedom and tyranny , let them come here , to south africa . here , citizens braved bullets and beatings to claim that most basic right : the ability to be free , to determine your own fate , in your own land . and madiba ’ s example extended far beyond that victory . now , i mentioned yesterday at the town hall -- like america ’ s first president , george washington , he understood that democracy can only endure when it ’ s bigger than just one person . so his willingness to leave power was as profound as his ability to claim power .
so , today , you all have a rare and valuable chance to pursue your own passions , chase your own dreams without incurring a mountain of debt . what an incredible gift . so you ’ ve got no excuse for giving anything less than your best effort . no excuses .
but in advance of my state of the union address next week , i ’ ve been rolling out my proposals for keeping our economy on track , keeping it growing , making sure we 're creating jobs and opportunity for the american people . and that includes the extraordinary opportunities that exist in our digital economy .
he could make the cuts the way he wants and that way it wo n't be as damaging . the problem is when you 're cutting $ 85 billion in seven months , which represents over a 10-percent cut in the defense budget in seven months , there 's no smart way to do that .
our prayers are with the richard family of dorchester -- to denise and their young daughter , jane , as they fight to recover . and our hearts are broken for 8-year-old martin -- with his big smile and bright eyes . his last hours were as perfect as an 8-year-old boy could hope for -- with his family , eating ice cream at a sporting event . and we ’ re left with two enduring images of this little boy -- forever smiling for his beloved bruins , and forever expressing a wish he made on a blue poster board : “ no more hurting people . peace . ”
because issues like segregated schools and housing , lack of jobs and opportunity -- symbols of history that are a source of pride for some and pain for others -- these are not tangential to peace ; they ’ re essential to it . if towns remain divided -- if catholics have their schools and buildings , and protestants have theirs -- if we can ’ t see ourselves in one another , if fear or resentment are allowed to harden , that encourages division . it discourages cooperation .
we must never forget that the things we ’ ve struggled for , and fought for , live in the hearts of people everywhere . and we must always remember that the americans who have borne the greatest burden in this struggle are the men and women who serve our country .
so tonight , i am announcing that the american combat mission in iraq has ended . operation iraqi freedom is over , and the iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country .
and i just want to point out the alternative to such reform is a world where health care costs grow at an unsustainable rate . and if you do n't think that 's going to threaten your reimbursements and the stability of our health care system , you have n't been paying attention .
on the other hand , even my republican friends who complain the most about government spending have supported federally financed roads , and clean energy projects , and federal offices for the folks back home .
for the united states , these new circumstances have also meant shifting away from a perpetual war footing . beyond bringing our troops home , we have limited the use of drones so they target only those who pose a continuing , imminent threat to the united states where capture is not feasible , and there is a near certainty of no civilian casualties . we ’ re transferring detainees to other countries and trying terrorists in courts of law , while working diligently to close the prison at guantanamo bay . and just as we reviewed how we deploy our extraordinary military capabilities in a way that lives up to our ideals , we ’ ve begun to review the way that we gather intelligence , so that we properly balance the legitimate security concerns of our citizens and allies with the privacy concerns that all people share .
good evening . tonight , i can report to the american people and to the world that the united states has conducted an operation that killed osama bin laden , the leader of al qaeda , and a terrorist who ’ s responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men , women , and children .
you make a big election about small things . and you know what ? it 's worked before , because it feeds into the cynicism we all have about government . when washington does n't work , all its promises seem empty .
so this new relationship represents a major step forward . it is change . but i promised even more than that . i told you that as president , i would work with you to tackle the most difficult problems facing native american families . and that ’ s exactly what we ’ ve done . we passed the tribal law and order act , and began making indian country a safer place to live . we permanently authorized the indian health care improvement act , and made quality health care accessible to more native americans .
even so , there are many more worthy projects than there were dollars to fund them . i recognize that by their nature these projects often take time , and will therefore create jobs over time . but the need for jobs will also last beyond next year and the benefits of these investments will last years beyond that . so adding to this initiative to rebuild america 's infrastructure is the right thing to do .
now , in the meantime , the natural gas boom has led to cleaner power and greater energy independence . we need to encourage that . and that ’ s why my administration will keep cutting red tape and speeding up new oil and gas permits . that ’ s got to be part of an all-of-the-above plan . but i also want to work with this congress to encourage the research and technology that helps natural gas burn even cleaner and protects our air and our water .
a 70 percent cut in clean energy . a 25 percent cut in education . a 30 percent cut in transportation . cuts in college pell grants that will grow to more than $ 1,000 per year . that ’ s the proposal . these aren ’ t the kind of cuts you make when you ’ re trying to get rid of some waste or find extra savings in the budget . these aren ’ t the kinds of cuts that the fiscal commission proposed . these are the kinds of cuts that tell us we can ’ t afford the america that i believe in and i think you believe in .
and so we ’ re going to do everything we can to partner with you , mr. mayor , with you , governor . as the governor was pointing out , this community was hit as bad as any place , but there are communities all across alabama and all across this region that have been affected , and we ’ re going to be making that same commitment to make sure that we ’ re doing whatever we can to make sure that people are okay .
and as your commander-in-chief , i also want you to know that we will do whatever it takes to make sure that you have the strategy and the resources and the equipment and the leadership to get this done .
“ i still believe. ” i still believe as well . and i know that if we can come together and uphold our responsibilities to one another and to this larger enterprise that is america , we will keep the dream of our founding alive -- in our time ; and we will pass it on to our children . we will pass on to our children a country that we believe in .
they were dedicated fathers -- like mike ridgell , coaching his daughter 's softball teams , joining facebook just to keep up with his girls , one of whom said , `` he was always the cool dad . '' they were loving mothers -- like mary francis knight , devoted to her daughters , and who had just recently watched with joy as her older daughter got married . they were doting grandparents -- like john johnson , always smiling , giving bear hugs to his 10 grandchildren , and who would have welcomed his 11th grandchild this fall .
i know this is a tough vote . and i am actually confident -- i ’ ve talked to some of you individually -- that it will end up being the smart thing to do politically because i believe that good policy is good politics . i am convinced that when you go out there and you are standing tall and you are saying i believe that this is the right thing to do for my constituents and the right thing to do for america , that ultimately the truth will out .
first , we ’ re going to do more to help our newest veterans find and get that private sector job . we ’ re going to offer -- we ’ re going to offer more help with career development and job searches . i ’ ve directed dod and the va to create what we ’ re calling a “ reverse boot camp ” to help our newest veterans prepare for civilian jobs and translate their exceptional military skills into industry -- into industry-accepted licenses and credentials . and today i ’ m calling on every state to pass legislation that makes it easier for our veterans to get the credentials and the jobs for which they are so clearly qualified . this needs to happen , and it needs to happen now .
so with that , let me take a couple questions . q : mr. president , for how long a period of time do you see these airstrikes continuing for ? and is your goal there to contain isis or to destroy it ?
but this , too , is part of america 's promise , the promise of a democracy where we can find the strength and grace to bridge divides and unite in common effort . i know there are those who dismiss such beliefs as happy talk . they claim that our insistence on something larger , something firmer , and more honest in our public life is just a trojan horse for higher taxes and the abandonment of traditional values .
we are gathered here today to celebrate the life , and mourn the passing , of dr. dorothy height . it is fitting that we do so here , in our national cathedral of saint peter and saint paul . here , in a place of great honor . here , in the house of god . surrounded by the love of family and of friends . the love in this sanctuary is a testament to a life lived righteously ; a life that lifted other lives ; a life that changed this country for the better over the course of nearly one century here on earth .
government is the police officers who are protecting our communities , and the servicemen and women who are defending us abroad . government is the roads you drove in on and the speed limits that kept you safe . government is what ensures that mines adhere to safety standards and that oil spills are cleaned up by the companies that caused them . government is this extraordinary public university -- a place that ’ s doing lifesaving research , and catalyzing economic growth , and graduating students who will change the world around them in ways big and small .
i 'm ready to act in the face of this outrage . today i 'm asking congress to send a message to the world that we are ready to move forward together as one nation .
that is what we saw play out in the last two weeks , as a crude and disgusting video sparked outrage throughout the muslim world . now , i have made it clear that the united states government had nothing to do with this video , and i believe its message must be rejected by all who respect our common humanity .
but over time , laws changed , and hearts and minds changed , sometimes driven by courageous lawmakers , but more often driven by committed citizens . politicians oftentimes follow rather than lead . and so , especially young people helped to push and to prod and to protest , and to make common cause with those who did not look like them . and that transformed america -- so that malia and sasha ’ s generation , they have different attitudes about differences and race than mine and certainly different from the generation before that . and each successive generation creates a new space for peace and tolerance and justice and fairness .
now , in addition to making government more affordable , we 're also making it more effective and more consumer-friendly . we 're trying to run the government a little bit more like you run your business -- with better technology and faster services .
and that ’ s why we ’ re interested in investing not in strongmen , but in strong institutions : independent judiciaries that can enforce the rule of law ; honest police forces that can protect the peoples ’ interests instead of their own ; an open government that can bring transparency and accountability .
and in a culture that celebrates fame and fortune , yours are not necessarily household names . they 're something more : the patriots who serve in our name . and after nearly 9 years of war in iraq , tonight is an opportunity for us to express our gratitude and to say once more : welcome home .
it 's hard to change something as fundamental as how we use energy . i know that . it 's even harder to do so in the midst of a global recession . certainly , it will be tempting to sit back and wait for others to move first . but we can not make this journey unless we all move forward together . as we head into copenhagen , let us resolve to focus on what each of us can do for the sake of our common future .
thank you very much , everybody . god bless you . god bless the united states of america . good afternoon . earlier today , the supreme court upheld the constitutionality of the affordable care act -- the name of the health care reform we passed two years ago . in doing so , they 've reaffirmed a fundamental principle that here in america -- in the wealthiest nation on earth – no illness or accident should lead to any family ’ s financial ruin .
members of the class of 2013 , you are heirs to a great legacy . you have within you that same courage and that same strength , the same resolve as the men who came before you . that ’ s what being a morehouse man is all about . that ’ s what being an american is all about .
audience member : how about abdulmutallab -- locking up a 16-year-old -- is that the way we treat a 16-year old ? [ inaudible ] -- can you take the drones out of the hands of the cia ? can you stop the signature strikes killing people on the basis of suspicious activities ?
it is a string of events that would have broken a lesser man . and it would have been easy for teddy to let himself become bitter and hardened ; to surrender to self-pity and regret ; to retreat from public life and live out his years in peaceful quiet . no one would have blamed him for that .
president obama : well , once isil got into mosul that posed a big problem , because there ’ s no doubt that they were able to capture some weapons and resources that they then used to finance additional operations .
regardless of the arguments we ’ ve had in the past , regardless of the arguments we will have in the future , this plan is the right thing to do right now . you should pass it . and i intend to take that message to every corner of this country . and i ask -- i ask every american who agrees to lift your voice : tell the people who are gathered here tonight that you want action now . tell washington that doing nothing is not an option . remind us that if we act as one nation and one people , we have it within our power to meet this challenge .
the anguish of assassinations set off self-defeating riots . legitimate grievances against police brutality tipped into excuse-making for criminal behavior . racial politics could cut both ways , as the transformative message of unity and brotherhood was drowned out by the language of recrimination .
it ’ s on that basis that we were able to end two wars while still focusing on the very real threat of terrorism and to try to work with our partners on the ground in places like iraq and afghanistan .
and i promise you , what was needed in dr. mays ’ s time , that spirit of excellence , and hard work , and dedication , and no excuses is needed now more than ever . if you think you can just get over in this economy just because you have a morehouse degree , you ’ re in for a rude awakening . but if you stay hungry , if you keep hustling , if you keep on your grind and get other folks to do the same -- nobody can stop you .
but at the end of the day , the circumstances of your life -- what you look like , where you come from , how much money you have , what you 've got going on at home -- none of that is an excuse for neglecting your homework or having a bad attitude in school . that 's no excuse for talking back to your teacher , or cutting class , or dropping out of school . there is no excuse for not trying .
either we gut education and medical research , or we ’ ve got to reform the tax code so that the most profitable corporations have to give up tax loopholes that other companies don ’ t get . we can ’ t afford to do both .
part of the challenge of intelligence work is , by necessity , your work has to remain secret . i know that carries a heavy burden . you ’ re often the first ones to get the blame when things go wrong , and you ’ re always the last ones to get the credit when things go right . so when things do go right -- and they do more often than the world will ever know -- we ought to celebrate your success .
audience members : she ’ s here . the president : she ’ s over there ? hey , kelsey . how are you ? so kelsey was quoted as saying , “ we ’ re the kind of school that never gets credit for what we do . and our school is amazing. ” this is what kelsey said , “ our school is amazing . ”
and i know this to be true because i see the strength and resilience of the american people . terrorists want to scare us . new yorkers just go about their lives unafraid . extremists want a war between america and islam , but muslims are part of our national life , including those who serve in our united states army . adversaries want to divide us , but we are united by our support for you -- soldiers who send a clear message that this country is both the land of the free and the home of the brave .
likewise , the leaders of iran must recognize that now is the time for a diplomatic solution , because a coalition stands united in demanding that they meet their obligations , and we will do what is necessary to prevent them from getting a nuclear weapon .
thank you . pease , be seated . thank you , very much . madam speaker , leader reid , members of congress , dear friends , former colleagues : it is a great honor to be here -- a place where lincoln served , was inaugurated , and where the nation he saved bid him a last farewell . as we mark the bicentennial of our 16th president 's birth , i can not claim to know as much about his life and works as many who are also speaking today , but i can say that i feel a special gratitude to this singular figure who in so many ways made my own story possible -- and in so many ways made america 's story possible .
thank you very much . mr. speaker , mr. vice president , members of congress , and fellow americans : tonight we meet at an urgent time for our country . we continue to face an economic crisis that has left millions of our neighbors jobless , and a political crisis that ’ s made things worse .
this is the future we seek in the asia pacific -- security , prosperity and dignity for all . that ’ s what we stand for . that ’ s who we are . that ’ s the future we will pursue , in partnership with allies and friends , and with every element of american power . so let there be no doubt : in the asia pacific in the 21st century , the united states of america is all in .
groups like these are answering the bible ’ s call -- to `` seek justice '' and `` rescue the oppressed . '' some of them join us today , and we are grateful for your leadership
less than 1 percent of our health care spending goes to examining what treatments are most effective -- less than 1 percent . and even when that information finds its way into journals , it can take up to 17 years to find its way to an exam room or operating table . as a result , too many doctors and patients are making decisions without the benefit of the latest research .
i ’ m going to make this the last question . lisa lerer , bloomberg . question : do we know yet if there were other americans on board beyond the person you mentioned ? and how do you prevent stricter restrictions , economic sanctions from shocking the global economy and --
bin laden and his murderous vision won some adherents . but even before his death , al qaeda was losing its struggle for relevance , as the overwhelming majority of people saw that the slaughter of innocents did not answer their cries for a better life . by the time we found bin laden , al qaeda ’ s agenda had come to be seen by the vast majority of the region as a dead end , and the people of the middle east and north africa had taken their future into their own hands .
so may we always remember that our shared heritage makes us stronger , that our roots are intertwined . may we always choose faith over nihilism , and courage over despair , and hope over cynicism and fear . as we walk our own leg of a timeless , sacred march , may we always stand together , here at home and around the world .
the bottom line is this : the u.s. government had sufficient information to have uncovered this plot and potentially disrupt the christmas day attack . but our intelligence community failed to connect those dots , which would have placed the suspect on the `` no fly '' list . in other words , this was not a failure to collect intelligence ; it was a failure to integrate and understand the intelligence that we already had . the information was there . agencies and analysts who needed it had access to it . and our professionals were trained to look for it and to bring it all together .
we seek a future where palestinians live in a sovereign state of their own , with no limit to what they can achieve . there ’ s no question that the palestinians have seen that vision delayed for too long . it is precisely because we believe so strongly in the aspirations of the palestinian people that america has invested so much time and so much effort in the building of a palestinian state , and the negotiations that can deliver a palestinian state .
now , add it all up , and the plan i 'm proposing will cost around $ 900 billion over 10 years -- less than we have spent on the iraq and afghanistan wars , and less than the tax cuts for the wealthiest few americans that congress passed at the beginning of the previous administration . now , most of these costs will be paid for with money already being spent -- but spent badly -- in the existing health care system . the plan will not add to our deficit . the middle class will realize greater security , not higher taxes . and if we are able to slow the growth of health care costs by just one-tenth of 1 percent each year -- one-tenth of 1 percent -- it will actually reduce the deficit by $ 4 trillion over the long term .
now , i should add , the arguments against these techniques did not originate from my administration . as senator mccain once said , torture `` serves as a great propaganda tool for those who recruit people to fight against us . '' and even under president bush , there was recognition among members of his own administration -- including a secretary of state , other senior officials , and many in the military and intelligence community -- that those who argued for these tactics were on the wrong side of the debate , and the wrong side of history . that 's why we must leave these methods where they belong -- in the past . they are not who we are , and they are not america .
but , again , these programs are subject to congressional oversight and congressional reauthorization and congressional debate . and if there are members of congress who feel differently , then they should speak up . and we 're happy to have that debate .
most americans support the types of reforms i ’ ve talked about tonight . but i understand the disagreements held by many of you at home . millions of us , myself included , go back generations in this country , with ancestors who put in the painstaking work to become citizens . so we don ’ t like the notion that anyone might get a free pass to american citizenship .
now let 's make two things clear : isil is not `` islamic . '' no religion condones the killing of innocents . and the vast majority of isil 's victims have been muslim . and isil is certainly not a state . it was formerly al qaeda 's affiliate in iraq , and has taken advantage of sectarian strife and syria 's civil war to gain territory on both sides of the iraq-syrian border . it is recognized by no government , nor by the people it subjugates . isil is a terrorist organization , pure and simple . and it has no vision other than the slaughter of all who stand in its way .
q you just outlined an entire rationale for why this ca n't happen . the president : yes . q and if -- then if -- and you 're not negotiating on the debt ceiling .
there was nothing particularly original in my proposal ; this basic framework for negotiations has long been the basis for discussions among the parties , including previous u.s. administrations . since questions have been raised , let me repeat what i actually said on thursday -- not what i was reported to have said .
we must have clear , defensible , and lawful standards for those who fall into this category . we must have fair procedures so that we do n't make mistakes . we must have a thorough process of periodic review , so that any prolonged detention is carefully evaluated and justified
the third decision that i made was to order a review of all pending cases at guantanamo . i knew when i ordered guantanamo closed that it would be difficult and complex . there are 240 people there who have now spent years in legal limbo . in dealing with this situation , we do n't have the luxury of starting from scratch . we 're cleaning up something that is , quite simply , a mess -- a misguided experiment that has left in its wake a flood of legal challenges that my administration is forced to deal with on a constant , almost daily basis , and it consumes the time of government officials whose time should be spent on better protecting our country .
if they won ’ t come to me , i will come to them . recently , i had dinner -- it ’ s been well publicized -- i had dinner with a number of the republican senators . and i ’ ll admit it wasn ’ t easy . i proposed a toast -- it died in committee .
success may not come quickly or easily . but if you strive to do what ’ s right , if you work harder and dream bigger , if you set an example in your own lives and do your part to help meet the challenges of our time , then i ’ m confident that , together , we will continue the never-ending task of perfecting our union .
and that ’ s why , as both the prime minister and the opposition leader indicated , we are determined to succeed in afghanistan . it is why i salute australia -- outside of nato , the largest contributor of troops to this vital mission . and it ’ s why we honor all those who have served there for our security , including 32 australian patriots who gave their lives , among them captain bryce duffy , corporal ashley birt , and lance corporal luke gavin . we will honor their sacrifice by making sure that afghanistan is never again used as a source for attacks against our people . never again .
now , that spirit -- that spirit of resolve and determination and resilience , that ’ s the same spirit we see in all of you , the men and women in uniform , the spirit we ’ ll need to meet other challenges of our time . obviously the news has been dominated lately by the oil spill , but our nation is at war and all of you have stepped forward . you volunteered . you took an oath . you stood tall and you said , “ i will serve . ”
so to staff sergeant cory remsburg , to the disabled american veterans -- i want to say to all of you , you are the very essence of america , the values that sustain us as a people , and the virtues our nation needs most right now . and the resilience that , in the face of great loss , so many of you experienced , i know you , like cory , know what it means to pick yourselves up and keep pushing on .
now , this kind of development is inseparable from the role of democracy . today , we sometimes hear that democracy stands in the way of economic progress . this is not a new argument . particularly in times of change and economic uncertainty , some will say that it is easier to take a shortcut to development by trading away the right of human beings for the power of the state . but that ’ s not what i saw on my trip to india , and that is not what i see here in indonesia . your achievements demonstrate that democracy and development reinforce one another .
each of these proposals deserves a vote in congress . now , if you want to vote no , that ’ s your choice . but these proposals deserve a vote . because in the two months since newtown , more than a thousand birthdays , graduations , anniversaries have been stolen from our lives by a bullet from a gun -- more than a thousand .
and yet , somehow , given the dizzying pace of globalization , the cultural leveling of modernity , it perhaps comes as no surprise that people fear the loss of what they cherish in their particular identities -- their -- their race , their tribe , and perhaps most powerfully their religion . in some places , this fear has led to conflict . at times , it even feels like we 're moving backwards . we see it in the middle east , as the conflict between arabs and jews seems to harden . we see it in nations that are torn asunder by tribal lines .
i ’ m happy to have that conversation . what i will not do is to have that negotiation with a gun at the head of the american people -- the threat that “ unless we get our way , unless you gut medicare or medicaid , or otherwise slash things that the american people don ’ t believe should be slashed , that we ’ re going to threaten to wreck the entire economy. ” that is not how historically this has been done . that ’ s not how we ’ re going to do it this time .
fourth , we will continue to invest in the cutting-edge research and development necessary for the innovation and discovery we need to meet the digital challenges of our time . and that 's why my administration is making major investments in our information infrastructure : laying broadband lines to every corner of america ; building a smart electric grid to deliver energy more efficiently ; pursuing a next generation of air traffic control systems ; and moving to electronic health records , with privacy protections , to reduce costs and save lives .
second , we continued our work to create more prosperity and opportunity for our people . at our meeting yesterday , central american leaders reaffirmed their commitment to pursue the good governance and economic and security reforms that are needed , and i reiterated my commitment to working with congress to secure the $ 1 billion i ’ ve proposed for our engagement with central america . yesterday ’ s deal between boeing and copa airlines will support jobs in the united states , in panama , and across the region , and i think is representative of the commercial opportunities that allow both north and southern hemispheres -- both north and south america , as well as central america to prosper if we deepen those trade ties .
that ’ s the american spirit . no matter how hard we are tested , we look to our faith and our faith in one another . no matter what the challenge , we ’ ve always carried the american dream forward . that ’ s been true throughout our history .
we will strengthen pakistan 's capacity to target those groups that threaten our countries , and have made it clear that we can not tolerate a safe-haven for terrorists whose location is known , and whose intentions are clear .
chaplain emil j. kapaun distinguished himself by acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while serving with the 3rd battalion , 8th cavalry regiment , 1st calvary division during combat operations against an armed enemy at unsan , korea , from november 1st to 2nd , 1950 .
we shouldn ’ t be expecting less of our schools –- we should be demanding more . we shouldn ’ t be making it harder to afford college -- we should be a country where everyone has a chance to go and doesn ’ t rack up $ 100,000 of debt just because they went
but we do not have to think that human nature is perfect for us to still believe that the human condition can be perfected . we do not have to live in an idealized world to still reach for those ideals that will make it a better place . the non-violence practiced by men like gandhi and king may not have been practical or possible in every circumstance , but the love that they preached -- their fundamental faith in human progress -- that must always be the north star that guides us on our journey .
so because all this spending is popular with both republicans and democrats alike , and because nobody wants to pay higher taxes , politicians are often eager to feed the impression that solving the problem is just a matter of eliminating waste and abuse . you ’ ll hear that phrase a lot . “ we just need to eliminate waste and abuse. ” the implication is that tackling the deficit issue won ’ t require tough choices . or politicians suggest that we can somehow close our entire deficit by eliminating things like foreign aid , even though foreign aid makes up about 1 percent of our entire federal budget .
that said , let me explain how we will cover the price tag . first , as part of the budget that was passed a few months ago , we put aside $ 635 billion over 10 years in what we 're calling a health reserve fund . over half of that amount -- more than $ 300 billion -- will come from raising revenue by doing things like modestly limiting the tax deductions the wealthiest americans can take to the same level that it was at the end of the reagan years -- same level that it was under ronald reagan . some are concerned that this will dramatically reduce charitable giving , for example , but statistics show that 's not true . and the best thing for our charities is the stronger economy that we will build with health care reform .
the only way this time will be different is if the american people demand that this time it must be different -- that this time , we must do something to protect our communities and our kids . we need parents , we need teachers , we need police officers , we need pastors , we need hunters and sportsmen , americans of every background to say , we ’ ve suffered too much pain and care too much about our children to allow this to continue . we ’ re not going to just wait for the next newtown or the next aurora before we act . and i genuinely believe that ’ s what the overwhelming majority of americans -- i don ’ t care what party they belong to -- that ’ s what they want . they just want to see some progress .
so the trade deal would help eliminate barriers , and simplify customs , and hold countries accountable for getting products delivered swiftly . the more tess sells , the more she can grow , the more she can hire here in oregon , here in the united states .
ultimately , peace is just not about politics . it ’ s about attitudes ; about a sense of empathy ; about breaking down the divisions that we create for ourselves in our own minds and our own hearts that don ’ t exist in any objective reality , but that we carry with us generation after generation .
i 'm convinced we can get it done . reform that continues to strengthen border security and strengthen legal immigration , so citizens don ’ t have to wait years to bring their families to the united states .
to meet this challenge , our leaders came together three times during the 1990s to reduce our nation ’ s deficit -- three times . they forged historic agreements that required tough decisions made by the first president bush , then made by president clinton , by democratic congresses and by a republican congress . all three agreements asked for shared responsibility and shared sacrifice . but they largely protected the middle class ; they largely protected our commitment to seniors ; they protected our key investments in our future .
now , there are already voices saying the numbers do n't add up . they 're wrong . here 's why . making health care affordable for all americans will cost somewhere on the order of $ 1 trillion over the next 10 years . that 's real money , even in washington . but remember , that 's less than we are projected to have spent on the war in iraq . and also remember , failing to reform our health care system in a way that genuinely reduces cost growth will cost us trillions of dollars more in lost economic growth and lower wages .
that 's what the moses generation teaches us . take off your bedroom slippers . put on your marching shoes . go do some politics . change this country ! that 's what we need .
all of that is possible but none of it will come easy . every one of us is going to have to work more , read more , train more , think more . we will have to slough off some bad habits -- like driving gas guzzlers that weaken our economy and feed our enemies abroad . our children will have to turn off the tv set once in a while and put away the video games and start hitting the books . we ’ ll have to reform institutions , like our public schools , that were designed for an earlier time . republicans will have to recognize our collective responsibilities , even as democrats recognize that we have to do more than just defend old programs .
as i said on this stage two years ago , i believe in the power of the free market . i believe in a strong financial sector that helps people to raise capital and get loans and invest their savings .
so for those who doubted our capacity to carry out this operation , i want to be clear : the united states of america has done what we said we would do . that ’ s not to say that our work is complete . in addition to our nato responsibilities , we will work with the international community to provide assistance to the people of libya , who need food for the hungry and medical care for the wounded . we will safeguard the more than $ 33 billion that was frozen from the qaddafi regime so that it ’ s available to rebuild libya . after all , the money doesn ’ t belong to qaddafi or to us -- it belongs to the libyan people . and we ’ ll make sure they receive it .
the fact of the matter is in our modern history , there are a whole range of programs that have been classified because -- when it comes to , for example , fighting terror , our goal is to stop folks from doing us harm . and if every step that we ’ re taking to try to prevent a terrorist act is on the front page of the newspapers or on television , then presumably the people who are trying to do us harm are going to be able to get around our preventive measures . that 's why these things are classified .
as we end the war in iraq , we ’ re pressing forward in afghanistan . we ’ re working to break the momentum of the taliban insurgency and train afghan security forces , strengthen the capacity of the afghan government and protect the afghan people .
now , israel can not be expected to negotiate with anyone who is dedicated to its destruction . but while i know you have had differences with the palestinian authority , i genuinely believe that you do have a true partner in president abbas and prime minister fayyad . i believe that . and they have a track record to prove it . over the last few years , they have built institutions and maintained security on the west bank in ways that few could have imagined just a few years ago . so many palestinians -- including young people -- have rejected violence as a means of achieving their aspirations .
our intelligence shows the assad regime and its forces preparing to use chemical weapons , launching rockets in the highly populated suburbs of damascus , and acknowledging that a chemical weapons attack took place . and all of this corroborates what the world can plainly see -- hospitals overflowing with victims ; terrible images of the dead . all told , well over 1,000 people were murdered . several hundred of them were children -- young girls and boys gassed to death by their own government .
ending the iraq war has allowed us to strike decisive blows against our enemies . from pakistan to yemen , the al qaeda operatives who remain are scrambling , knowing that they can ’ t escape the reach of the united states of america .
this appreciation for diverse views may also come in handy as a die-hard mets fan serving alongside her new colleague-to-be , yankees fan justice sotomayor , who i believe has ordered a pinstriped robe for the occasion .
we measure the strength of our economy not by the number of billionaires we have or the profits of the fortune 500 , but by whether someone with a good idea can take a risk and start a new business , or whether the waitress who lives on tips can take a day off and look after a sick kid without losing her job , an economy that honors the dignity of work .
so the anxiety that ’ s out there today isn ’ t new . the recession has certainly made it worse , but that feeling of not being in control of your own economic future -- that sense that the american dream might slowly be slipping away -- that ’ s been around for some time now .
moreover , i am less interested in passing out blame than i am in learning from and correcting these mistakes to make us safer . for ultimately , the buck stops with me . as president , i have a solemn responsibility to protect our nation and our people . and when the system fails , it is my responsibility .
but that 's always our goal , to free families from the pervasive fear that one illness or one injury might cost you everything that you dedicated a lifetime to build . our goal has always been to declare that in this country the security of health care is not a privilege for a fortunate few . it 's a right for all to enjoy . that 's what the affordable care act is all about . that 's its promise . and i intend to deliver on that promise .
a couple of people i want to acknowledge -- first of all , i want to thank your mayor , my great friend , rahm emanuel for his outstanding leadership of the city and his kind introduction . i want to thank everybody here at hyde park academy for welcoming me here today .
as a result of these efforts , we ’ ve directed bp to mobilize additional equipment and technology . and in the coming weeks and days , these efforts should capture up to 90 percent of the oil leaking out of the well . this is until the company finishes drilling a relief well later in the summer that ’ s expected to stop the leak completely .
first , the same technological advances that allow u.s. intelligence agencies to pinpoint an al qaeda cell in yemen or an email between two terrorists in the sahel also mean that many routine communications around the world are within our reach . and at a time when more and more of our lives are digital , that prospect is disquieting for all of us .
as we pursue this goal , we will also pursue peace between israel and lebanon , israel and syria , and a broader peace between israel and its many neighbors . in pursuit of that goal , we will develop regional initiatives with multilateral participation , alongside bilateral negotiations .
and i know that doesn ’ t lessen the enormous sense of anger and frustration felt by people on the gulf and so many americans . every day i see this leak continue i am angry and frustrated as well . i realize that this entire response effort will continue to be filtered through the typical prism of politics , but that ’ s not what i care about right now . what i care about right now is the containment of this disaster and the health and safety and livelihoods of our neighbors in the gulf coast . and for as long as it takes , i intend to use the full force of the federal government to protect our fellow citizens and the place where they live . i can assure you of that .
but i also know this : if people had made that decision 50 years ago , or 100 years ago , or 200 years ago , we would n't be here tonight . the only reason we are here is because generations of americans were unafraid to do what was hard ; to do what was needed even when success was uncertain ; to do what it took to keep the dream of this nation alive for their children and their grandchildren .
so , too with our campaign to end homelessness among our veterans . we ’ ve now helped to bring tens of thousands of veterans off the streets and into permanent housing . this has to be a core mission , because every veteran who has fought for america ought to have a home in america .
and it is because of the progress that i ’ ve witnessed in my own lifetime , the progress that i ’ ve witnessed after nearly four years as president , that i remain ever hopeful about the world that we live in . the war in iraq is over . american troops have come home . we ’ ve begun a transition in afghanistan , and america and our allies will end our war on schedule in 2014. al qaeda has been weakened , and osama bin laden is no more . nations have come together to lock down nuclear materials , and america and russia are reducing our arsenals . we have seen hard choices made -- from naypyidaw to cairo to abidjan -- to put more power in the hands of citizens .
and while opportunities for women have grown exponentially over the last 30 years , as young people , in many ways you have it even tougher than we did . this recession has been more brutal , the job losses steeper . politics seems nastier . congress more gridlocked than ever . some folks in the financial world have not exactly been model corporate citizens .
the freedom to be heard is a principle that the americas at large is committed to . and that doesn ’ t mean , as i said , that we ’ re going to agree on every issue . but we should address those issue candidly and honestly and civilly , and welcome the voices of all of our people into the debates that shape the future of the hemisphere .
already we 've identified $ 2 trillion dollars in deficit reductions over the next decade . we need to do more , but we 've already done that . we 've announced procurement reform that will greatly reduce no-bid contracts and save the government $ 40 billion . we need to do more , but that 's an important start . secretary gates recently announced a courageous set of reforms that go right at the hundreds of billions of dollars in waste and cost overruns that have bloated our defense budget without making america safer . we need to do more , but that proposal by secretary gates is right on target . we will end education programs that do n't work , we will root out waste and fraud and abuse in our medicare program .
thank you . god bless you . god bless israel , and god bless the united states of america . thank you . well , thank you , leon , and thank you , jim .
legionnaires , in the decades that followed , the spirit of your service was carried forth by our troops in the sands of desert storm and the rugged hills of the balkans . and now , it 's carried on by a new generation . next weekend , we 'll mark the 10th anniversary of those awful attacks on our nation . in the days ahead , we will honor the lives we lost and the families that loved them ; the first responders who rushed to save others ; and we will honor all those who have served to keep us safe these 10 difficult years , especially the men and women of our armed forces .
so i ’ m going to be calling on the private sector to step up . i will be saying to democrats we ’ ve got to question some of our old assumptions . we ’ ve got to be willing to redesign or get rid of programs that do n't work as well as they should .
perhaps they will never tell us where the knife will fall -- but you can be sure that with cuts this deep , there is no secret plan or formula that will be able to protect the investments we need to help our economy grow .
as for security , every state has the right to self-defense , and israel must be able to defend itself -- by itself -- against any threat . provisions must also be robust enough to prevent a resurgence of terrorism , to stop the infiltration of weapons , and to provide effective border security . the full and phased withdrawal of israeli military forces should be coordinated with the assumption of palestinian security responsibility in a sovereign , non-militarized state . and the duration of this transition period must be agreed , and the effectiveness of security arrangements must be demonstrated .
and i 've seen it in this campaign , in the young people who voted for the first time and the young at heart , those who got involved again after a very long time ; in the republicans who never thought they 'd pick up a democratic ballot , but did .
but the events of the past six months show us that strategies of repression and strategies of diversion will not work anymore . satellite television and the internet provide a window into the wider world -- a world of astonishing progress in places like india and indonesia and brazil . cell phones and social networks allow young people to connect and organize like never before . and so a new generation has emerged . and their voices tell us that change can not be denied .
president obama : hello , rio de janeiro ! audience : hello ! audience member : many welcomes ! president obama : alo ! cidade ! maravilhoso ! boa tarde , todo o povo brasileiro .
our new majority can end the tax breaks for corporations that ship our jobs overseas and put a middle-class tax cut in the pockets of working americans who deserve it . we can stop sending our children to schools with corridors of shame and start putting them on a pathway to success .
and we saw doctors and nurses rushing into the streets to care for those who were wounded , volunteers checking protesters to ensure that they were unarmed . we saw people of faith praying together and chanting – “ muslims , christians , we are one. ” and though we know that the strains between faiths still divide too many in this world and no single event will close that chasm immediately , these scenes remind us that we need not be defined by our differences . we can be defined by the common humanity that we share .
last year , i also pledged to connect 99 percent of our students to high-speed broadband over the next four years . tonight , i can announce that with the support of the fcc and companies like apple , microsoft , sprint , and verizon , we 've got a down payment to start connecting more than 15,000 schools and twenty million students over the next two years , without adding a dime to the deficit .
over the past three days , my wife michelle and i have experienced the -- and dynamism of india and its people -- from the majesty of humayun ’ s tomb to the advanced technologies that are empowering farmers and women who are the backbone of indian society ; from the diwali celebrations with schoolchildren to the innovators who are fueling india ’ s economic rise ; from the university students who will chart india ’ s future , to you -- leaders who helped to bring india to this moment of extraordinary promise .
'' we do not need to recite here the history of racial injustice in this country . but we do need to remind ourselves that so many of the disparities that exist between the african-american community and the larger american community today can be traced directly to inequalities passed on from an earlier generation that suffered under the brutal legacy of slavery and jim crow .
audience : no ! president obama : never . audience member : do n't come to california . president obama : all right . well , listen , it is wonderful to see all of you . first of all , please give mark another round of applause for his hospitality . and thanks to everyone at nike for hosting us today , here in “ federer platz. ” you know , the white house is cool . we ’ ve got a basketball court -- actually , it 's a tennis court that we repainted some lines -- when i came into office . so it 's a combination basketball-tennis court . there is a putting green that president eisenhower put in . can you imagine , by the way , if i had put in a putting green ? things have changed .
now until last week , i think it ’ s fair to say that few outside this state had ever heard of west . and i suspect that ’ s the way most people in west like it .
we have a deficit in this country when we have scooter libby justice for some and jena justice for others , when our children see hanging nooses from a school yard tree today , in the present , in the 21st century .
and with respect to the supreme leader , yes , it ’ s a pretty important title . it seems a little more clear-cut than president . on the other hand , there may be ways of structuring a final deal that satisfy their pride , their optics , their politics , but meet our core practical objectives . and that ’ s what we ’ ve got to give the negotiators room to determine .
specialist salvatore a. giunta distinguished himself conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity , at the risk of his life , above and beyond the call of duty , in action , with an armed enemy in the korengal valley , afghanistan , on october 25 , 2007 .
that remains our interest today . and so , going forward , the united states will maintain a constructive relationship with the interim government that promotes core interests like the camp david accords and counterterrorism . we ’ ll continue support in areas like education that directly benefit the egyptian people . but we have not proceeded with the delivery of certain military systems , and our support will depend upon egypt ’ s progress in pursuing a more democratic path .
so the essential ingredient to real and lasting stability and progress is not less democracy ; it ’ s more democracy . it ’ s institutions that uphold the rule of law and apply justice equally . it ’ s security forces and police that respect human rights and treat people with dignity . it ’ s free speech and strong civil societies where people can organize and assemble and advocate for peaceful change . it ’ s freedom of religion where all people can practice their faith without fear and intimidation . all of this is part of countering violent extremism .
third , we ’ re going to be introducing new legislation -— a consumer privacy bill of rights . working with many of you -— from the private sector and advocacy groups -- we ’ ve identified some basic principles to both protect personal privacy and ensure that industry can keep innovating .
these men and women grew up with faith in an america where hard work and responsibility paid off . they believed in a country where everyone gets a fair shake and does their fair share -- where if you stepped up , did your job , and were loyal to your company , that loyalty would be rewarded with a decent salary and good benefits ; maybe a raise once in a while . if you did the right thing , you could make it . anybody could make it in america .
we pledged to avoid the trade barriers and protectionism that hurts us all in the end . and we decided to meet again in the fall to gauge our progress and take additional steps if necessary .
that 's why , working with this congress , i will reform our surveillance programs -- because the vital work of our intelligence community depends on public confidence , here and abroad , that the privacy of ordinary people is not being violated .
and while there remain some significant details to be ironed out , i believe -- i believe a broad consensus exists for the aspects of the plan i just outlined : consumer protections for those with insurance , an exchange that allows individuals and small businesses to purchase affordable coverage , and a requirement that people who can afford insurance get insurance .
now , let ’ s be clear . the costs of health care are not going to come down overnight just because legislation passed , and in an ever-changing industry like health care , we ’ re going to continuously need to apply more cost-cutting measures as the years go by .
now , in terms of new sources of energy , we have a few different options . the first is natural gas . recent innovations have given us the opportunity to tap large reserves –- perhaps a century ’ s worth of reserves , a hundred years worth of reserves -– in the shale under our feet . but just as is true in terms of us extracting oil from the ground , we ’ ve got to make sure that we ’ re extracting natural gas safely , without polluting our water supply .
this larger debate that we will be having and that you will be covering in the coming year about the size and role of government , this debate has been with us since our founding days . and during moments of great challenge and change , like the ones that we ’ re living through now , the debate gets sharper ; it gets more vigorous . that ’ s a good thing . as a country that prizes both our individual freedom and our obligations to one another , this is one of the most important debates that we can have .
thank you very much , everybody . q : on immigration ? president obama : thank you , guys . thank you . q : immigration ? q : mr. president , how are external events and your executive decision-making going to impact your decision on immigration reform ? some people say you ’ re going to delay this .
their legacy is our inheritance . and the question is , how do we honor and preserve it ? how do we ensure that `` never again '' is n't an empty slogan , or merely an aspiration , but also a call to action ?
i want them to grow up in a country where a young mom can sit down and write a letter to her president with a story that sums up these past six years : “ it ’ s amazing what you can bounce back from when you have to…we are a strong , tight-knit family who ’ s made it through some very , very hard times . ”
in pursuit of regional security , we will continue to welcome dialogue between india and pakistan , even as we recognize that disputes between your two countries can only be resolved by the people of your two countries .
and as the president of a country that you can count on as your greatest friend -- i am confident that you can help us find the promise in the days that lie ahead . and as a man who ’ s been inspired in my own life by that timeless calling within the jewish experience -- tikkun olam -- i am hopeful that we can draw upon what ’ s best in ourselves to meet the challenges that will come ; to win the battles for peace in the wake of so much war ; and to do the work of repairing this world . that ’ s your job . that ’ s my job . that ’ s the task of all of us .
we need your honor and courage , and we need your commitment -- that sense of purpose that says i will try even harder , i will do even better in what i expect of myself , in the way i interact with others , including those of different backgrounds . it 's no accident that our military is the most respected institution in america -- and one of the most diverse institutions in america . so recognize the dignity in every human being . treat one another with respect . remember that when we harness the talents of every man and every woman from every race and every religion and every creed , no nation can ever match us .
we face a tough fight in afghanistan . any insurgency that is confronted with a direct challenge will turn to new tactics . and from marja to kandahar , that is what the taliban has done through assassination and indiscriminate killing and intimidation . moreover , any country that has known decades of war will be tested in finding political solutions to its problems , and providing governance that can sustain progress and serve the needs of its people .
now , i ’ m not saying you got to do it here all at once . but as theodore roosevelt once put it , i ’ m asking you to “ do what you can , with what you ’ ve got , where you are. ” and i can guarantee that wherever your journey takes you , there are going to be children who need mentors and senior citizens who need assistance , folks down on their luck who could use a helping hand .
i 've said -- i have to say that there are arguments to be made for both these approaches . but either one would represent a radical shift that would disrupt the health care most people currently have . since health care represents one-sixth of our economy , i believe it makes more sense to build on what works and fix what does n't , rather than try to build an entirely new system from scratch . and that is precisely what those of you in congress have tried to do over the past several months .
now more than ever -- now more than ever , america needs what you , the class of 2012 , has to offer . america needs you to reach high and hope deeply . and if you fight for your seat at the table , and you set a better example , and you persevere in what you decide to do with your life , i have every faith not only that you will succeed , but that , through you , our nation will continue to be a beacon of light for men and women , boys and girls , in every corner of the globe .
and this work is not easy . sometimes it 's controversial . it 's not going to be the same in every state . but in places like tennessee , we 're seeing incredible strides as a consequence of these efforts . over the past few years , tennessee students have improved their reading scores and math scores more than any other state in the country . that ’ s a credit to their hard work , their teachers ’ hard work , to governor haslam ’ s hard work , leaders from both parties . it 's been a bipartisan effort . every tennessean should be proud of that .
infrastructure is something that still needs to get done . i think there is still under-investment of infrastructure in that region . i know there was some controversy a while back because china wanted to start an asia infrastructure bank ; we haven ’ t yet signed on to participate .
and i 've made it clear that there will be no lasting peace unless israel ’ s security concerns are met . that 's why we continue to press arab leaders to reach out to israel , and will continue to support the peace treaty with egypt .
so i 've come to europe this week to renew our partnership , one in which america listens and learns from our friends and allies , but where our friends and allies bear their share of the burden . together , we must forge common solutions to our common problems .
the conduct represented in the recently published article does not meet the standard that should be set by a commanding general . it undermines the civilian control of the military that is at the core of our democratic system . and it erodes the trust that 's necessary for our team to work together to achieve our objectives in afghanistan .
but to be fair , a good deal of the other party ’ s opposition to our agenda has also been rooted in their sincere and fundamental belief about the role of government . it ’ s a belief that government has little or no role to play in helping this nation meet our collective challenges . it ’ s an agenda that basically offers two answers to every problem we face : more tax breaks for the wealthy and fewer rules for corporations .
but we have to recognize that despite our best efforts , oil has already caused damage to our coastline and its wildlife . and sadly , no matter how effective our response is , there will be more oil and more damage before this siege is done . that ’ s why the second thing we ’ re focused on is the recovery and restoration of the gulf coast .
for our families and our businesses , high-speed wireless service , that ’ s the next train station ; it ’ s the next off-ramp . it ’ s how we ’ ll spark new innovation , new investment , new jobs .
in short , today there is a renewed cause for hope in iraq , but that hope rests upon an emerging foundation . on my first full day in office , i directed my national security team to undertake a comprehensive review of our strategy in iraq to determine the best way to strengthen that foundation , while strengthening american national security . i have listened to my secretary of defense , the joint chiefs of staff , and commanders on the ground . we have acted with careful consideration of events on the ground ; with respect for the security agreements between the united states and iraq ; and with a critical recognition that the long-term solution in iraq must be political – not military . because the most important decisions that have to be made about iraq ’ s future must now be made by iraqis .
look at the faces here around you , and you see an america that is more fair and more free and more just than the one dr. king addressed that day . we are right to savor that slow but certain progress -- progress that ’ s expressed itself in a million ways , large and small , across this nation every single day , as people of all colors and creeds live together , and work together , and fight alongside one another , and learn together , and build together , and love one another .
think about it : students who started at community colleges during those two years , and then go on to a four-year institution , they essentially get the first half of their bachelor ’ s degree for free . people who enroll for skills training will graduate already ready to work , and they won ’ t have a pile of student debt . two years of college will become as free and universal as high school is today .
a nuclear-armed iran is completely counter to israel ’ s security interests . but it is also counter to the national security interests of the united states . indeed , the entire world has an interest in preventing iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon . a nuclear-armed iran would thoroughly undermine the non-proliferation regime that we 've done so much to build . there are risks that an iranian nuclear weapon could fall into the hands of a terrorist organization . it is almost certain that others in the region would feel compelled to get their own nuclear weapon , triggering an arms race in one of the world 's most volatile regions . it would embolden a regime that has brutalized its own people , and it would embolden iran ’ s proxies , who have carried out terrorist attacks from the levant to southwest asia .
but i just have to put this stuff aside , i 've got to stay focused on my job , because for many americans , this is still a time of deep uncertainty . for example , i have one friend -- just a few weeks ago , she was making millions of dollars a year . and she 's now living out of a van in iowa .
i think the african american community is also not naïve in understanding that , statistically , somebody like trayvon martin was statistically more likely to be shot by a peer than he was by somebody else . so folks understand the challenges that exist for african american boys . but they get frustrated , i think , if they feel that there ’ s no context for it and that context is being denied . and that all contributes i think to a sense that if a white male teen was involved in the same kind of scenario , that , from top to bottom , both the outcome and the aftermath might have been different .
that includes the right strategy in iraq , where we ’ re partnering with the iraqi people for their long-term security and prosperity . and thanks to the honor and the heroism of our troops , we are poised to end our combat mission in iraq this summer -- on schedule .
so part of our challenge is reconciling these two seemingly irreconcilable truths : that war is sometimes necessary ; and war at some level is an expression of human folly . concretely , we must direct our effort to the task that president kennedy called for long ago . `` let us focus , '' he said , `` on a more practical , more attainable peace , based not on a sudden revolution in human nature but on a gradual evolution in human institutions . ''
they weren ’ t fully aware of the massive bets that were being placed . that ’ s what led warren buffett to describe derivatives that were bought and sold with little oversight as “ financial weapons of mass destruction. ” that ’ s what he called them .
the fact is , though , we can ’ t finish the job of deficit reduction through spending cuts alone . the cuts we ’ ve already made to priorities other than medicare , medicaid , social security and defense mean that we spend on everything from education to public safety less as a share of our economy than it has -- than has been true for a generation . and that ’ s not a recipe for growth .
a government has a role in this -- but teachers must inspire ; principals must lead ; parents must instill a thirst for learning ; and students , you 've got to do the work . and together , i promise you we can out-educate and outcompete any nation on earth .
so , graduates , i hope you ’ ll continue those efforts . don ’ t make excuses . and i hope that wherever you go , you won ’ t narrow the broad intellectual and social exposure you ’ ve had here at kalamazoo central -- instead , seek to expand it . don ’ t just hang out with people who look like you , or go to the same church you do , or share your political views . broaden your circle to include people with different backgrounds and life experiences . because that ’ s how you ’ ll end up learning what it ’ s like to walk in somebody else ’ s shoes . that ’ s how you ’ ll come to understand the challenges other people face .
but america must be about more than taking out terrorists and locking up weapons , or else new terrorists will rise up to take the place of every one we capture or kill . that is why the third step in my strategy will be drying up the rising well of support for extremism .
they ’ re america ’ s “ quiet professionals ” -- because success demands secrecy . but i will say this . like all of you , they could have chosen a life of ease . but like you , they volunteered . they chose to serve in a time of war , knowing they could be sent into harm ’ s way . they trained for years . they ’ re battle-hardened . they practiced tirelessly for this mission . and when i gave the order , they were ready .
and it ’ s a plan to reduce our deficit in a balanced and responsible way our work is made that much more urgent because at the end of this year , we face a series of deadlines that require us to make major decisions about how to pay our deficit down -- decisions that will have a huge impact on the economy and the middle class , both now and in the future . last year , i worked with democrats and republicans to cut a trillion dollars ’ worth of spending that we just couldn ’ t afford . i intend to work with both parties to do more -- and that includes making reforms that will bring down the cost of health care so we can strengthen programs like medicaid and medicare for the long haul .
and while i 'm very proud of what we 've achieved together , i 'm far more mindful of my own failings -- knowing exactly what lincoln meant when he said , `` i have been driven to my knees many times by the overwhelming conviction that i had no place else to go . ''
and that is why we will support -- we will strengthen our support for effective peacekeeping , while energizing our efforts to prevent conflicts before they take hold . we will pursue a lasting peace in sudan through support for the people of darfur and the implementation of the comprehensive peace agreement , so that we secure the peace that the sudanese people deserve . and in countries ravaged by violence -- from haiti to congo to east timor -- we will work with the u.n. and other partners to support an enduring peace .
well , we 're not even asking for that much . all we 're asking is that they close loopholes for the well-off and the well-connected -- for hedge fund managers , or oil companies , or corporate jet owners who are all doing very well and don ’ t need these tax loopholes -- so we can avoid laying off workers , or kicking kids off head start , or reducing financial aid for college students .
and there are a lot of companies that use these instruments to that legitimate end -- they are managing exposure to fluctuating prices or currencies , fluctuating markets . for example , a business might hedge against rising oil prices by buying a financial product to secure stable fuel costs , so an airlines might have an interest in locking in a decent price .
this is how we will help meet our responsibility as a nation to open the doors of college to every american . but it will also be the responsibility of colleges and universities to control spiraling costs . we ca n't just keep on putting more money in and universities and colleges not doing their part to hold down tuitions . and it 's the responsibility of our students to walk through the doors of opportunity .
we still got that 10 % in order to cross over to the other side . so the question , i guess , that i have today is what 's called of us in this joshua generation ? what do we do in order to fulfill that legacy ; to fulfill the obligations and the debt that we owe to those who allowed us to be here today
may god bless you , and may god bless the united states of america . thank you . thank you , everybody . good evening . you know , i had an entire speech prepared for this wonderful occasion , but now that i 'm here i think i 'm going to try something a little different . tonight i want to speak from the heart . i 'm going to speak off the cuff .
today , our homes and businesses consume 40 percent of the energy that we use , and it costs us billions of dollars in energy bills . manufacturers that require large amounts of energy to make their products , they 're challenged by rising energy costs . and so you can ’ t separate the issue of oil dependence from the issue of how we are producing generally -- more energy generally .
fourth , we will continue to provide humanitarian assistance to innocent civilians who have been displaced by this terrorist organization . this includes sunni and shia muslims who are at grave risk , as well as tens of thousands of christians and other religious minorities . we can not allow these communities to be driven from their ancient homelands .
since i took office , i ’ ve made clear my determination to prevent iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon . as i ’ ve said many times , my strong preference is to resolve this issue peacefully , and we ’ ve extended the hand of diplomacy . yet for many years , iran has been unwilling to meet its obligations to the international community . so my administration worked with congress , the united nations security council and countries around the world to impose unprecedented sanctions on the iranian government .
and we ca n't put this off any longer . just last thursday , as tv networks were covering one of joe ’ s meetings on this topic , news broke of another school shooting , this one in california . in the month since 20 precious children and six brave adults were violently taken from us at sandy hook elementary , more than 900 of our fellow americans have reportedly died at the end of a gun -- 900 in the past month . and every day we wait , that number will keep growing .
third point , the problem with our deficit and debt is not new . it has been building dramatically over the past eight years , largely because big tax cuts combined with increased spending on two wars and the increased costs of government health care programs have pushed it ever upwards . this structural gap in our budget , between the amount of money that 's coming in and the amount of money that 's going out , will only get worse as the baby boomers age , and will in fact lead us down an unsustainable path .
i also know that many -- many americans share their concerns . but it 's clear that , from my perspective , this is what we need to do right now to prevent the possibility of a crisis turning into a catastrophe . it is conceivable -- it 's possible that if we did nothing everything would turn out okay . it 's -- there -- there 's a possibility that that 's true . and there 's no doubt that there may be other plans out there that , had we had two or three or six months to develop , might be even more refined and might serve our purposes better .
this country was founded during some harsh winters . the fishermen , the laborers , the craftsmen who made camp at valley forge -- they weathered a hard winter . the slaves and the freedmen who rode an underground railroad , seeking the light of justice under the cover of night -- they weathered a hard winter .
and , ultimately , the way we 're going to get stuff done -- personal relationships are important , and obviously i can always do a better job , and the nice thing is , is that now that my girls are getting older , they do n't want to spend that much time with me anyway , so i 'll be probably calling around , looking for somebody to play cards with me or something , because i 'm getting kind of lonely in this big house .
that ’ s what hope is . imagining and then fighting for and struggling for and sometimes dying for what didn ’ t seem possible before . there ’ s nothing naïve about that . there are no false hopes in that
it was precisely because he could admit to imperfection -- because he could be so full of good humor , even mischief , despite the heavy burdens he carried -- that we loved him so . he was not a bust made of marble ; he was a man of flesh and blood -- a son and a husband , a father and a friend . and that ’ s why we learned so much from him , and that ’ s why we can learn from him still . for nothing he achieved was inevitable . in the arc of his life , we see a man who earned his place in history through struggle and shrewdness , and persistence and faith . he tells us what is possible not just in the pages of history books , but in our own lives as well .
but it is wonderful to be here . please give it up for two people who fight every single day for oregon workers -- your representatives in congress -- they do a great job -- earl blumenauer and suzanne bonamici . they are both here . give them a big round of applause . yay ! and there are two people who could n't make it here today , but they ’ re doing a great job and you should give them a round of applause as well , and that 's senator ron wyden and representative kurt schrader .
but i also know that human progress can not be denied . there need not be contradictions between development and tradition . countries like japan and south korea grew their economies enormously while maintaining distinct cultures . the same is true for the astonishing progress within muslim-majority countries from kuala lumpur to dubai . in ancient times and in our times , muslim communities have been at the forefront of innovation and education .
we have a supply of natural gas that can last america nearly 100 years . and my administration will take every possible action to safely develop this energy . experts believe this will support more than 600,000 jobs by the end of the decade . and i ’ m requiring all companies that drill for gas on public lands to disclose the chemicals they use . because america will develop this resource without putting the health and safety of our citizens at risk .
in recent years , we ’ ve worked to put these principles into practice . and as part of our comprehensive strategy , we ’ ve boosted our defenses in government , we ’ re sharing more information with the private sector to help those companies defend themselves , we ’ re working with industry to use what we call a cybersecurity framework to prevent , respond to , and recover from attacks when they happen .
sometimes it 's hard to break out of the bubble here in washington and remind ourselves that behind these statistics are people 's lives , their capacity to do right by their families . it speaks to an urgent need to accelerate job growth in the short term while laying a new foundation for lasting economic growth
but that doesn ’ t mean we don ’ t have work -- because if we ’ re honest with ourselves , we know that too few of our brothers have the opportunities that you ’ ve had here at morehouse . in troubled neighborhoods all across this country -- many of them heavily african american -- too few of our citizens have role models to guide them . communities just a couple miles from my house in chicago , communities just a couple miles from here -- they ’ re places where jobs are still too scarce and wages are still too low ; where schools are underfunded and violence is pervasive ; where too many of our men spend their youth not behind a desk in a classroom , but hanging out on the streets or brooding behind a jail cell .
we 'll do this by creating a new insurance exchange -- a marketplace where individuals and small businesses will be able to shop for health insurance at competitive prices . insurance companies will have an incentive to participate in this exchange because it lets them compete for millions of new customers .
so they stayed on the justice department . they went into the courts . they pressured congress , they pressured their president . they didn ’ t give up on this country . they didn ’ t give up on government .
i was encouraged by the support of many leaders here for the wto trade facilitation agreement , which would boost regional trade , and for the trans-pacific partnership , with its high standards for trade and strong protections for workers and the environment .
and while i urge the commission to complete its work as quickly as possible , i expect them to do that work thoroughly and impartially one place we ’ ve already begun to take action is at the agency in charge of regulating drilling and issuing permits , known as the minerals management service . over the last decade , this agency has become emblematic of a failed philosophy that views all regulation with hostility -- a philosophy that says corporations should be allowed to play by their own rules and police themselves . at this agency , industry insiders were put in charge of industry oversight . oil companies showered regulators with gifts and favors , and were essentially allowed to conduct their own safety inspections and write their own regulations .
there are those who 've argued that we should n't attempt , we should n't even be thinking , we should n't even be talking about such a transition until the economy recovers . and they are right that we have to take into account the costs of transition . transitioning to a clean energy economy will not be easy . but we can no longer delay putting a framework for a clean energy economy in place . that needs to be done now .
we will make tactical adjustments as we implement this strategy -- that is what any responsible commander-in-chief must do . as i have consistently said , i will consult with commanders on the ground and the iraqi government . we will redeploy from secure areas first and volatile areas later . we will commit $ 2 billion to a meaningful international effort to support the more than 4 million displaced iraqis . we will forge a new coalition to support iraq 's future -- one that includes all of iraq 's neighbors , and also the united nations , the world bank , and the european union -- because we all have a stake in stability . and we will make it clear that the united states seeks no permanent bases in iraq .
we came down a little bit late because we were upstairs looking at some of the exhibits and some of the private offices that were used by president johnson and mrs. johnson . and michelle was in particular interested to -- of a recording in which lady bird is critiquing president johnson ’ s performance . and she said , come , come , you need to listen to this . and she pressed the button and nodded her head . some things do not change -- even 50 years later .
my first piece of advice is this : don ’ t just get involved . fight for your seat at the table . better yet , fight for a seat at the head of the table .
now , the year i graduated -- this area looks familiar -- the year i graduated was 1983 , the first year women were admitted to columbia . sally ride was the first american woman in space . music was all about michael and the moonwalk .
governments and businesses from around the world are sizing up the continent , and they 're making decisions themselves about where to invest their own time and their own energy . and as i said yesterday at a town hall meeting up in johannesburg , that ’ s a good thing .
with today ’ s announcement , it ’ s time for us to move forward -- to implement and , where necessary , improve on this law . and now is the time to keep our focus on the most urgent challenge of our time : putting people back to work , paying down our debt , and building an economy where people can have confidence that if they work hard , they can get ahead .
we are currently in the process of reviewing each of the detainee cases at guantanamo to determine the appropriate policy for dealing with them . and as we do so , we are acutely aware that under the last administration , detainees were released and , in some cases , returned to the battlefield . that 's why we are doing away with the poorly planned , haphazard approach that let those detainees go in the past . instead we are treating these cases with the care and attention that the law requires and that our security demands .
every day , women are finally buying coverage that doesn ’ t charge them higher premiums than men for the same care . every day , people are discovering that new health insurance plans have to cover maternity care , mental health care , free preventive care
tonight , all of our men and women in uniform -- in iraq , in afghanistan , and around the world -- they have to know that we -- that ... they have our respect , our gratitude , our full support . and just as they must have the resources they need in war , we all have a responsibility to support them when they come home . that 's why we made the largest increase in investments for veterans in decades last year . that 's why we 're building a 21st century va. and that 's why michelle has joined with jill biden to forge a national commitment to support military families .
but those of us who loved him , and ache with his passing , know ted kennedy by the other titles he held : father . brother . husband . uncle teddy , or as he was often known to his younger nieces and nephews , `` the grand fromage , '' or `` the big cheese . '' i , like so many others in the city where he worked for nearly half a century , knew him as a colleague , a mentor , and above all , a friend .
point number two -- when you ask folks specifically , what do you oppose about this trade deal , they just say “ nafta. ” nafta was passed 20 years ago . that was a different agreement . and in fact , this agreement fixes some of what was wrong with nafta by making labor and environmental provisions actually enforceable . i was just getting out of law school when nafta got passed .
next , step two , i have instructed the intelligence community and the attorney general to use this transition period to develop options for a new approach that can match the capabilities and fill the gaps that the section 215 program was designed to address without the government holding this metadata itself . they will report back to me with options for alternative approaches before the program comes up for reauthorization on march 28th . and during this period , i will consult with the relevant committees in congress to seek their views , and then seek congressional authorization for the new program as needed .
and graduates who go into lower-paying fields like social work or teaching , they 're not going to pay a price for following their dreams because they 're going to have even better options in terms of how they repay their loans . so that 's what we did on the student loan side .
meanwhile , rick santorum announced that he would not attend the same-sex wedding of a friend or a loved one . to which gays and lesbians across the country responded , that 's not going to be a problem . do n't sweat that one .
soon after , you came to the yard -- and you got quite a welcome . the joy of i-day . wonderful haircuts . stylish eyeglasses . and all that plebe year , if you got something wrong , your upperclassmen kindly corrected you -- at high volume , at very close range . when michelle brought our daughter sasha here for a visit , she got a somewhat different reception . she was just in elementary school , but it seemed like the navy was already doing some recruiting -- because as she went through bancroft hall she came to one room and saw the name on the door -- “ sasha obama , class of 2023. ” so you never know .
some people may not know this , but obviously , this is my old neighborhood . i used to teach right around the corner . this is where michelle and i met , where we fell in love --
we ’ ve talked about doing this for decades , and we ’ ve made significant strides over the last year when it comes to investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency . the house of representatives has already passed a bill that would finally jumpstart a permanent transition to a clean energy economy , and there is currently a plan in the senate -- a plan that was developed with ideas from democrats and republicans -- that would achieve the same goal .
now , that is not untypical for a lot of folks like jessica who have been struggling without health insurance . that ’ s what the affordable care act is all about . the point is , the essence of the law -- the health insurance that ’ s available to people -- is working just fine . in some cases , actually , it ’ s exceeding expectations -- the prices are lower than we expected , the choice is greater than we expected .
we ’ ll also give u.n. inspectors the opportunity to report their findings about what happened on august 21st . and we will continue to rally support from allies from europe to the americas -- from asia to the middle east -- who agree on the need for action
it ’ s -- it 's what we do on a daily basis to give our lives meaning and to give our lives purpose . that ’ s what matters . at the end of the day , what we ’ ll remember will be those we loved and what we did for others . that ’ s why we ’ re here .
a recent study , for example , found that only half of all cardiac guidelines are based on scientific evidence -- half . that means doctors may be doing a bypass operation when placing a stent is equally effective ; or placing a stent when adjusting a patient 's drug and medical management is equally effective -- all of which drives up costs without improving a patient 's health .
and here ’ s what he said , because it pretty much sums up my message today : “ yes , the website really stank for the first week. ” “ but instead of paying $ 1,600 per month for a group insurance plan , we have a plan that will only cost us $ 692 a month -- a savings of $ 900 per month. ” john said that while he saw -- when he saw what they ’ d be paying , he turned to his wife and told her , `` we might just pull through .
every nation and every group must know -- whether you wish america good or ill -- that the end of the war in iraq will enable a new era of american leadership and engagement in the middle east . and that era has just begun .
let me make something clear : the united states military doesn ’ t do pinpricks . even a limited strike will send a message to assad that no other nation can deliver . i do n't think we should remove another dictator with force -- we learned from iraq that doing so makes us responsible for all that comes next . but a targeted strike can make assad , or any other dictator , think twice before using chemical weapons .
thank you , poland -- for your triumph -- not of arms , but of the human spirit , the truth that carries us forward . there is no change without risk , and no progress without sacrifice , and no freedom without solidarity .
my thoughts , condolences today are with her children . and i ask that she and her husband now rest together in eternal peace . thank you very much , mr. president . you know , four years ago , following the most devastating attack in our history , this body passed the usa patriot act in order to give our nation 's law enforcement the tools they needed to track down terrorists who plot and lurk within our own borders and all over the world ; terrorists who , right now , are looking to exploit weaknesses in our laws and our security to carry out attacks that may be even deadlier than those that took place on september 11th .
to put us on solid ground , we should also find a bipartisan solution to strengthen social security for future generations . we must do it without putting at risk current retirees , the most vulnerable , or people with disabilities ; without slashing benefits for future generations ; and without subjecting americans ’ guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market .
for $ 150,000 , that would be going to each millionaire and billionaire in this country . this budget says we ’ d be better off as a country if that ’ s how we spend it
they weren ’ t doing anything special . just doing what folks do every day -- shopping , going to school . every day that we wait to do something about it , even more of our fellow citizens are stolen from our lives by a bullet from a gun
and if we fail to act , federal spending on medicaid and medicare will grow over the coming decades by an amount almost equal to the amount our government currently spends on our nation 's defense . it will , in fact , eventually grow larger than what our government spends on anything else today . it 's a scenario that will swamp our federal and state budgets , and impose a vicious choice of either unprecedented tax hikes , or overwhelming deficits , or drastic cuts in our federal and state budgets .
at the same time , every american who has ever worn the uniform must also know this : your country is going to take care of you when you come home . our nation 's commitment to our veterans , to you and your families , is a sacred trust . and to me and my administration , upholding that trust is a moral obligation . it 's not just politics .
on the last day of the constitutional convention , benjamin franklin was famously asked , “ well , doctor , what have we got -- a republic or a monarchy ? ” and franklin gave an answer that ’ s been quoted for ages : he said , “ a republic , if you can keep it. ” if you can keep it .
and if we do , then one year from now , not only would our economy and our security be stronger , but maybe the best and the brightest from around the world who come study here would stay and create jobs here . maybe companies that play by the rules will no longer be undercut by companies that don ’ t . maybe more families who ’ ve been living here for years , whose children are often u.s. citizens , who are our neighbors and our friends , whose children are our kids ’ friends and go to school with them , and play on ball teams with them , maybe those families would get to stay together . but much of this only happens if americans continue to push congress to get this done .
let us remember that muslims have suffered the most at the hands of extremism . on the same day our civilians were killed in benghazi , a turkish police officer was murdered in istanbul only days before his wedding ; more than 10 yemenis were killed in a car bomb in sana ’ a ; several afghan children were mourned by their parents just days after they were killed by a suicide bomber in kabul .
the g7 statement accurately points out that the government in kyiv , the ukrainian government , has , in fact , abided by that agreement and operated in good faith . and we have not seen comparable efforts by the russians . and as a consequence , we are going to be moving forward with an expanded list of individuals and companies that will be affected by sanctions . they remain targeted . we will also focus on some areas of high-tech defense exports to russia that we don ’ t think are appropriate to be exporting in this kind of climate .
in wisconsin , a flier purporting to be from the `` milwaukee black voters league '' was circulated in predominantly african-american neighborhoods with the following message : `` if you 've already voted in any election this year , you ca n't vote in the presidential election . `` if you violate any of these laws , you can get ten years in prison and your children will get taken away from you . `` 4
she was raised by a single mom . she helped make ends meet , getting her first job almost the minute she could , two days after her 16th birthday . when it came time for college , the money wasn ’ t there .
and we can not continue to ignore the clean energy challenge or cede global leadership in the emerging industries of the 21st century . and that 's why , even as we strive to meet the crisis of the moment , we have insisted on laying a new foundation for the future
i don ’ t expect the details in any final agreement to look exactly like the approach i laid out today . this a democracy ; that ’ s not how things work . i ’ m eager to hear other ideas from all ends of the political spectrum . and though i ’ m sure the criticism of what i ’ ve said here today will be fierce in some quarters , and my critique of the house republican approach has been strong , americans deserve and will demand that we all make an effort to bridge our differences and find common ground .
the path towards sustainable energy sources will be long and sometimes difficult . but america can not resist this transition , we must lead it . we can not cede to other nations the technology that will power new jobs and new industries , we must claim its promise . that ’ s how we will maintain our economic vitality and our national treasure -- our forests and waterways , our crop lands , and snow-capped peaks . that is how we will preserve our planet , commanded to our care by god . that ’ s what will lend meaning to the creed our fathers once declared .
so here at stanford , pioneers developed the protocols and architecture of the internet , dsl , the first webpage in america , innovations for cloud computing . student projects here became yahoo and google . those were pretty good student projects . your graduates have gone on to help create and build thousands of companies that have shaped our digital society -- from cisco to sun microsystems , youtube to instagram , stubhub , bonobos . according to one study , if all the companies traced back to stanford graduates formed their own nation , you ’ d be one the largest economies in the world and have a pretty good football team as well .
these are the steps that i can take as president to change this policy . the embargo that ’ s been imposed for decades is now codified in legislation . as these changes unfold , i look forward to engaging congress in an honest and serious debate about lifting the embargo .
we knew from the beginning that change wouldn ’ t be easy . and we knew that there would be powerful voices that would do everything they could to run out the clock , change the subject , ignore the majority of the american people . we knew they ’ d try to make any progress collapse under the weight of fear and frustration , or maybe people would just stop paying attention .
and she and other members of families of 9/11 victims talked about what this meant . it meant that their suffering had not been forgotten , and that the american community stands with them , that we stand with each other .
i know that emotions are raw right now in ferguson and there are certainly passionate differences about what has happened . there are going to be different accounts of how this tragedy occurred . there are going to be differences in terms of what needs to happen going forward . that ’ s part of our democracy . but let ’ s remember that we ’ re all part of one american family . we are united in common values , and that includes belief in equality under the law ; a basic respect for public order and the right to peaceful public protest ; a reverence for the dignity of every single man , woman and child among us ; and the need for accountability when it comes to our government .
no one piece of information and no one agency made this possible . you did it together -- cia , national security agency , national reconnaissance office , the national geospatial intelligence agency , everyone at odni and the national counterterrorism center . folks across the country , civilian and military , so many of you here today .
this is legislation that puts our own justice department above the law . when national security letters are issued , they allow federal agents to conduct any search on any american , no matter how extensive , how wide ranging , without ever going before a judge to prove that the search is necessary . all that is needed is a signoff from a local fbi agent . that 's it .
in the life of our nation , across every generation , there are those who stand apart . they step up , they raise their hands , they take that oath . they put on the uniform and they put their lives on the line . they do this so that the rest of us might live in a country and a world that is safer , freer , and more just . this is the gift they 've given us . this is the debt that we owe them .
that , too , is part of the challenge that we must make we will have to confront the biases in our criminal justice system , but we also have to acknowledge the deep-seeded violence that still resides in our own communities , in too many of the hearts of our young people , and we have to break the grip of that violence wherever we see it .
this collective dream moved forward imperfectly -- it was scarred by our treatment of native peoples , betrayed by slavery , clouded by the subjugation of women , shaken by war and depression . and yet , brick by brick , rail by rail , calloused hand by calloused hand , people kept dreaming , and building , and working , and marching , and petitioning their government , until they made america a land where the question of our place in history is not answered for us .
thank you very much . and thanks to the ftc -- for all the great work you do to protect the american people . thank you . good afternoon , everybody . i want to thank secretary johnson , deputy secretary mayorkas , and the dedicated public servants of the department of homeland security for welcoming me here today . i ’ ve kind of taken over your work space . i apologize for that , but just pretend that i ’ m not here . i want you to keep working . i did ask who dressed up for this event , and apparently , a few were brave enough to admit it .
so i hope all of you have enjoyed this ceremony . i certainly have been extremely touched by it . to the kapaun family , god bless you . to all our veterans , we ’ re so proud of you .
my fellow americans , tonight i want to talk to you about syria -- why it matters , and where we go from here . over the past two years , what began as a series of peaceful protests against the repressive regime of bashar al-assad has turned into a brutal civil war . over 100,000 people have been killed . millions have fled the country . in that time , america has worked with allies to provide humanitarian support , to help the moderate opposition , and to shape a political settlement . but i have resisted calls for military action , because we can not resolve someone else ’ s civil war through force , particularly after a decade of war in iraq and afghanistan .
now , i ’ ve got to say , some of you are starting to look a little familiar -- because last december , when we were at bagram , i was out there to thank you for your service , especially during the holidays . and we had a great rally , a big crowd -- it seemed like everybody was there from the 101st .
having said that , i believe critics are right to point out that without proper safeguards , this type of program could be used to yield more information about our private lives , and open the door to more intrusive bulk collection programs in the future . they ’ re also right to point out that although the telephone bulk collection program was subject to oversight by the foreign intelligence surveillance court and has been reauthorized repeatedly by congress , it has never been subject to vigorous public debate .
in the end -- in the end -- in the end , that ’ s what this election is about . do we participate in a politics of cynicism or do we participate in a politics of hope ?
these education policies will open the doors of opportunity for our children . but it is up to us to ensure they walk through them . in the end , there is no program or policy that can substitute for a mother or father who will attend those parent/teacher conferences , or help with homework after dinner , or turn off the tv , put away the video games , and read to their child . i speak to you not just as a president , but as a father when i say that responsibility for our children 's education must begin at home .
look at berlin , where the determination of a people met the generosity of the marshall plan and created a german miracle ; where a -- where a victory over tyranny gave rise to nato , the greatest alliance ever formed to defend our common security .
and that ’ s why i ’ ve asked congress to start a community college to career initiative , so that workers can earn the skills that high-tech jobs demand without leaving their hometown . and i ’ m going to challenge ceos from some of america ’ s best companies to hire more americans who ’ ve got what it takes to fill that job opening but have been laid off for so long that nobody is giving their résumé an honest look .
we give thanks for the men who carried out this operation , for they exemplify the professionalism , patriotism , and unparalleled courage of those who serve our country . and they are part of a generation that has borne the heaviest share of the burden since that september day .
it is that promise that 's always set this country apart -- that through hard work and sacrifice each of us can pursue our individual dreams but still come together as one american family , to ensure that the next generation can pursue their dreams as well .
but we must never lose sight of what ’ s at stake . as we speak , al qaeda continues to plot against us , and its leadership remains anchored in the border regions of afghanistan and pakistan .
and when i look out at this room and think about the dedicated men and women whose questions i 've answered over the last few years , i know that for all the challenges this industry faces , it 's not short on talent or creativity or passion or commitment .
now , the only though that we can truly spark the transformation that 's need is through a gradual , market-based cap on carbon pollution , so that clean energy is the profitable kind of energy .
they know we can do better . and they want that choice . in this election , we offer that choice . our party has chosen a man to lead us who embodies the best this country has to offer . and that man is john kerry .
but that starts by being honest about what ’ s causing our deficit . you see , most americans tend to dislike government spending in the abstract , but like the stuff that it buys . most of us , regardless of party affiliation , believe that we should have a strong military and a strong defense . most americans believe we should invest in education and medical research . most americans think we should protect commitments like social security and medicare . and without even looking at a poll , my finely honed political instincts tell me that almost nobody believes they should be paying higher taxes . ( laughter . )
so there is no question that africa is on the move , but it 's not moving fast enough for the child still languishing in poverty in forgotten townships . it 's not moving fast enough for the protester who is beaten in harare , or the woman who is raped in eastern congo . we 've got more work to do , because these africans must not be left behind .
now , for those of you who took out your pencil and paper -- altogether , these savings mean that we 've put about $ 950 billion on the table -- and that does n't count some of the long-term savings that we think will come about from reform -- from medical it , for example , or increased investment in prevention . so that stuff in congressional jargon is not scorable ; the congressional budget office wo n't count that as savings , so we 're setting that aside . we think that 's going to come , but even separate and far from that , we 've put $ 950 billion on the table , taking us almost all the way to covering the full cost of health care reform .
i am grateful to them and to my campaign manager , david plouffe -- the unsung hero of this campaign , who built the best -- the best political campaign , i think , in the history of the united states of america . to my chief strategist david axelrod -- who 's been a partner with me every step of the way . to the best campaign team ever assembled in the history of politics -- you made this happen , and i am forever grateful for what you 've sacrificed to get it done .
kids still need to own up to their responsibilities . we still have to set high expectations for our young people . folks ca n't simply look to government for all the answers without also looking inside themselves , inside their own homes , for some of the answers
for the palestinians , efforts to delegitimize israel will end in failure . symbolic actions to isolate israel at the united nations in september won ’ t create an independent state . palestinian leaders will not achieve peace or prosperity if hamas insists on a path of terror and rejection . and palestinians will never realize their independence by denying the right of israel to exist .
we ’ ve got to get past some of the rhetoric that gets perpetuated that breaks down trust and is so over the top that it just shuts down all discussion . and it ’ s important for all of us when we hear that kind of talk to say , hold on a second .
there is extraordinary potential for increased cooperation between americans and russians . we can pursue trade that is free and fair and integrated with the wider world . we can boost investment that creates jobs in both our countries , we can forge partnerships on energy that tap not only traditional resources , like oil and gas , but new sources of energy that will drive growth and combat climate change . all of that , americans and russians can do together .
now , i know that some of you will disagree with this assessment . i respect that . and as fellow americans and friends of israel , i know we can have this discussion .
if ever we needed a reminder of the humanity and the hopes that we share , that moment in the desert was such . when a country like chile puts its mind to it , there ’ s nothing you can ’ t do . when countries across latin america come together and focus on a common goal , when the united states and others in the world do our part , there ’ s nothing we can ’ t accomplish together .
but as i said during the campaign , we ca n't just talk to our friends . as hard as it is , we also have to talk to our enemies , and i 've begun to do exactly that . take a look at the monitor there . now , let me be clear , just because he handed me a copy of peter pan does not mean that i 'm going to read it -- but it 's good diplomatic practice to just accept these gifts .
his life ’ s work was not to champion those with wealth or power or connections ; they already had enough representation . it was to give voice to the people who wrote and called him from every state , desperate for somebody who might listen and help . it was about what he could do for others .
that ’ s what made this one of the greatest intelligence successes in american history , and that ’ s why intelligence professionals are going to study and be inspired by your achievement for generations to come .
but as commander-in-chief , i must weigh these heartbreaking tragedies against the alternatives . to do nothing in the face of terrorist networks would invite far more civilian casualties -- not just in our cities at home and our facilities abroad , but also in the very places like sana ’ a and kabul and mogadishu where terrorists seek a foothold . remember that the terrorists we are after target civilians , and the death toll from their acts of terrorism against muslims dwarfs any estimate of civilian casualties from drone strikes . so doing nothing is not an option .
and no matter what you want to do with your life , i guarantee that you 'll need an education to do it . you want to be a doctor , or a teacher , or a police officer ? you want to be a nurse or an architect , a lawyer or a member of our military ? you 're going to need a good education for every single one of those careers . you can not drop out of school and just drop into a good job . you 've got to train for it and work for it and learn for it .
don ’ t narrow that broad intellectual exposure just because you ’ re leaving here . instead , seek to expand it . if you grew up in a big city , spend some time with somebody who grew up in a rural town .
and if there ’ s anything to take away from this tragedy it ’ s the reminder that life is very fragile . our time here is limited and it is precious . and what matters at the end of the day is not the small things ; it ’ s not the trivial things , which so often consume us and our daily lives . ultimately , it ’ s how we choose to treat one another and how we love one another .
so we ’ ve got to do more both to stabilize our finances over the medium and long term , but also spur more growth in the short term . i ’ ve said i ’ m open to making modest adjustments to programs like medicare to protect them for future generations . i ’ ve also said that we need more revenue through tax reform by closing loopholes in our tax code for the wealthiest americans . if we combine a balanced package of savings from spending on health care and revenues from closing loopholes , we can solve the deficit issue without sacrificing our investments in things like education that are going to help us grow .
so i ’ m proud to announce that next year , i 'm going to invite heads of state from across sub-saharan africa to a summit in the united states to help launch a new chapter in u.s.-african relations .
second thing , the reason we ’ re here is because the red cross knows what it ’ s doing when it comes to emergency response . and so for people all across the country who have not been affected , now is the time to show the kind of generosity that makes america the greatest nation on earth . and a good place to express that generosity is by contributing to the red cross .
i know there must be something exhausting about endless talks about talks , and daily controversies , and just the grinding status quo . and i 'm sure there 's a temptation just to say , “ ah , enough . let me focus on my small corner of the world and my family and my job and what i can control. ” but it 's possible .
but you know , things like childcare and sick leave and equal pay ; things like lower mortgage premiums and a higher minimum wage -- these ideas will make a meaningful difference in the lives of millions of families . that ’ s a fact . and that ’ s what all of us , republicans and democrats alike , were sent here to do .
we can do those things . but all of this can not come to pass until we bring an end to this war in iraq . most of you know -- most of you know that i opposed this war from the start .
by the age of 12 , he was a member of a gold star family . by 36 , two of his brothers were stolen from him in the most tragic , public of ways . by 41 , he nearly lost a beloved child to cancer . and that made suffering something he knew . and it made him more alive to the suffering of others .
if you choose this path , we can cut our oil imports in half by 2020 and support more than 600,000 new jobs in natural gas alone . and yes , my plan will continue to reduce the carbon pollution that is heating our planet , because climate change is not a hoax .
this is how ted kennedy lived . this is his legacy . he once said of his brother bobby that he need not be idealized or enlarged in death beyond what he was in life , and i imagine he would say the same about himself . the greatest expectations were placed upon ted kennedy 's shoulders because of who he was , but he surpassed them all because of who he became . we do not weep for him today because of the prestige attached to his name or his office . we weep because we loved this kind and tender hero who persevered through pain and tragedy - not for the sake of ambition or vanity ; not for wealth or power ; but only for the people and the country he loved .
and that is particularly true for the candidate who has traveled further on this journey than anyone else : senator hillary clinton has made history in this campaign . she has made history not -- not just because she ’ s a woman who has done what no woman has done before , but because she is a leader who inspires millions of americans with her strength , her courage , and her commitment to the causes that brought us here tonight . i congratulate her on her victory in south dakota , and i congratulate her on the race that she has run throughout this contest .
still , this is a complexed issue , and the longer it was debated , the more skeptical people became . i take my share of the blame for not explaining it more clearly to the american people . and i know that with all the lobbying and horse-trading , the process left most americans wondering , `` what 's in it for me ? '' but i also know this problem is not going away . by the time i 'm finished speaking tonight , more americans will have lost their health insurance . millions will lose it this year . our deficit will grow . premiums will go up . patients will be denied the care they need . small business owners will continue to drop coverage altogether . i will not walk away from these americans , and neither should the people in this chamber .
and yet , as this rapid change has taken place , it ’ s become fashionable in some quarters to question whether the rise of these nations will accompany the decline of american and european influence around the world . perhaps , the argument goes , these nations represent the future , and the time for our leadership has passed .
we have more work to do so that every child can fulfill his or her god-given potential . and here in tennessee we 've been seeing great progress . tennessee has been a leader , one of the first winners of the nationwide `` race to the top '' that we 've launched to reward the kind of results you 're getting here at booker t. washington .
the prime minister appropriately pointed out that the bond between the united states of america is unbreakable , and on that point i thoroughly agree . he also pointed out that iran has been a dangerous regime and continues to engage in activities that are contrary to the interests of the united states , to israel , and to the region . and on that , we agree . he also pointed out the fact that iran has repeatedly threatened israel and engaged in the most venomous of anti-semitic statements . and no one can dispute that .
this time -- this time we want to talk about the men and women of every color and creed who serve together , and fight together , and bleed together under the same proud flag .
we ’ re also going to help dads who get caught up -- we want to make sure that they 're caught up on child support payments and that we re-engage them in their children ’ s lives . we ’ re going to support efforts to build healthy relationships between parents as well -- because we know that children benefit not just from loving mothers and loving fathers , but from strong and loving marriages as well .
much of our critical infrastructure -- our financial systems , our power grid , health systems -- run on networks connected to the internet , which is hugely empowering but also dangerous , and creates new points of vulnerability that we didn ’ t have before . foreign governments and criminals are probing these systems every single day . we only have to think of real-life examples -- an air traffic control system going down and disrupting flights , or blackouts that plunge cities into darkness -- to imagine what a set of systematic cyber attacks might do . so this is also a matter of public safety .
had the house of representatives allowed that kind of bill a simple yes-or-no vote , it would have passed with support from both parties , and today it would be the law . but for a year and a half now , republican leaders in the house have refused to allow that simple vote .
thanks very much . i just concluded a meeting with members of my national security team , including those from our intelligence , homeland security and law enforcement agencies involved in the security reviews that i ordered after the failed attack on christmas day .
the book of psalms tells us : for you , o god , have tested us ; you have tried us . we went through fire and through water ; yet you have brought us out to a place of abundance .
for the american people , the scenes of upheaval in the region may be unsettling , but the forces driving it are not unfamiliar . our own nation was founded through a rebellion against an empire . our people fought a painful civil war that extended freedom and dignity to those who were enslaved . and i would not be standing here today unless past generations turned to the moral force of nonviolence as a way to perfect our union -- organizing , marching , protesting peacefully together to make real those words that declared our nation : “ we hold these truths to be self-evident , that all men are created equal . ”
it took a man like madiba to free not just the prisoner , but the jailer as well -- to show that you must trust others so that they may trust you ; to teach that reconciliation is not a matter of ignoring a cruel past , but a means of confronting it with inclusion and generosity and truth . he changed laws , but he also changed hearts .
so i believe we can , and must , come together again . this morning , i met with democratic and republican leaders in congress to discuss the approach that i laid out today . and in early may , the vice president will begin regular meetings with leaders in both parties with the aim of reaching a final agreement on a plan to reduce the deficit and get it done by the end of june .
we ’ re still the america that does the hard things , that does the great things . we ’ re the nation that always dared to dream . we ’ re the nation that ’ s willing to take risks -- revolutionaries breaking free from an empire ; pioneers heading west to settle new frontiers ; innovators building railways and laying the highways and putting a man on the surface of the moon .
first : it ’ s time for congress to require a universal background check for anyone trying to buy a gun . the law already requires licensed gun dealers to run background checks , and over the last 14 years that ’ s kept 1.5 million of the wrong people from getting their hands on a gun . but it ’ s hard to enforce that law when as many as 40 percent of all gun purchases are conducted without a background check . that ’ s not safe . that 's not smart . it ’ s not fair to responsible gun buyers or sellers .
and that sense of purpose that tells us to carry on , not just when it 's easy , but when it 's hard , even when the odds seem overwhelming -- that 's what we 're about . the confidence that our destiny is never written for us , it 's written by us . the faith , that fundamental american faith , that there are always brighter days ahead ; and that we not will not simply endure , but we will emerge from our tests and trials and tribulations stronger than before -- that is your story . that is america 's story . and i 'm proud to stand with you as we write the next proud chapter in the life of the country we love .
as we go forward , the resolve of the united states will remain firm , as will our commitments to our friends and allies –- particularly israel and our gulf partners , who have good reason to be skeptical about irans intentions .
and that is why , four years ago , i made a commitment to the american people , and said that we would use all elements of american power to pressure iran and prevent it from acquiring a nuclear weapon . and that is what we have done .
in fact , many practices were so opaque , so confusing , so complex that the people inside the firms didn ’ t understand them , much less those who were charged with overseeing them .
that is why i have asked vice president biden to lead a tough , unprecedented oversight effort – because nobody messes with joe . i have told each member of my cabinet as well as mayors and governors across the country that they will be held accountable by me and the american people for every dollar they spend . i have appointed a proven and aggressive inspector general to ferret out any and all cases of waste and fraud . and we have created a new website called recovery.gov so that every american can find out how and where their money is being spent .
plus a year of medical care for a returning veteran . plus a medical research grant for a chronic disease . plus a year ’ s salary for a firefighter or police officer . plus a tax credit to make a year of college more affordable .
all of these men and women in uniform , all of you represent the same spirit of service and sacrifice as those who ’ ve gone before -- who defeated fascism , defeated tyranny , prevailed in a long cold war over communism . and now , in our time , you ’ ve toppled regimes based on terror and dictatorship , and you ’ ve given new hope to millions of people . you ’ ve earned your place among the greatest of generations .
and i hope that all the other countries at the summit of the americas will join us in seeing that it ’ s important . because sometimes , as difficult as it is , it ’ s important for us to be able to speak honestly and candidly on behalf of people who are vulnerable and people who are powerless , people who are voiceless . i know , because there was a time in our own country where there were groups that were voiceless and powerless . and because of world opinion , that helped to change those circumstance . we have a debt to pay , because the voices of ordinary people have made us better . that ’ s a debt that i want to make sure we repay in this hemisphere and around the world .
first of all , we continue to make progress in carrying out our targeted military operations in iraq . last week , i authorized two limited missions : protecting our people and facilities inside of iraq , and a humanitarian operation to help save thousands of iraqi civilians stranded on a mountain.1
and so we remember a man who inspired all of us with his courage , and moved us with his compassion , that inspired us with his integrity , and who taught so many of us -- including a young kid growing up in hawaii -- that america has a place for everyone .
we will soon lay down thousands of miles of power lines that can carry new energy to cities and towns across this country . and we will put americans to work making our homes and buildings more efficient so that we can save billions of dollars on our energy bills .
pittsburgh , a city that once was defined by the steel industry , knows this better than just about anybody . and today , the ability of jobs and entire industries to relocate where there ’ s skilled workers and an internet connection has forced america to compete like never before
thank you very much . god bless you . hello , berlin ! thank you , chancellor merkel , for your leadership , your friendship , and the example of your life -- from a child of the east to the leader of a free and united germany .
and what i can say is that in evaluating these programs , they make a difference in our capacity to anticipate and prevent possible terrorist activity . and the fact that they ’ re under very strict supervision by all three branches of government and that they do not involve listening to people 's phone calls , do not involve reading the emails of u.s. citizens or u.s. residents absent further action by a federal court that is entirely consistent with what we would do , for example , in a criminal investigation -- i think on balance , we have established a process and a procedure that the american people should feel comfortable about
to say that we are bound together as one people , and must constantly strive to see ourselves in one another , is not to argue for a false unity that papers over our differences and ratifies an unjust status quo . as was true 50 years ago , as has been true throughout human history , those with power and privilege will often decry any call for change as “ divisive. ” they ’ ll say any challenge to the existing arrangements are unwise and destabilizing . dr. king understood that peace without justice was no peace at all ; that aligning our reality with our ideals often requires the speaking of uncomfortable truths and the creative tension of non-violent protest .
then there 's the problem of rising cost . we spend one and a half times more per person on health care than any other country , but we are n't any healthier for it .
i hope we continue to see that spirit live on not just during this debate but throughout all our work here in the senate . thank you , mr. president . i yield the floor .
more than nine million americans have signed up for private health insurance or medicaid coverage . and here 's another number : zero . because of this law , no american can ever again be dropped or denied coverage for a preexisting condition like asthma , back pain , or cancer . no woman can ever be charged more just because she 's a woman . and we did all this while adding years to medicare 's finances , keeping medicare premiums flat , and lowering prescription costs for millions of seniors .
at every stop , we have been welcomed with the hospitality for which indians have always been known . so , to you and the people of india , on behalf of me , michelle and the american people , please accept my deepest thanks . bahoot dhanyavad .
and yet , there is only one thing that can stand in the way of change that just about everybody agrees on , and that 's politics in washington . you would think that with those numbers congress would rush to make this happen . that 's what you would think . if our democracy is working the way it 's supposed to , and 90 percent of the american people agree on something , in the wake of a tragedy you 'd think this would not be a heavy lift .
let me make one final point . more than anything else , this economic and environmental tragedy -- and it ’ s a tragedy -- underscores the urgent need for this nation to develop clean , renewable sources of energy . doing so will not only reduce threats to our environment , it will create a new , homegrown , american industry that can lead to countless new businesses and new jobs .
we ’ re also doing whatever it takes to help the men and women whose livelihoods have been disrupted and even destroyed by this spill -- everyone from fishermen to restaurant and hotel owners . so far the small business administration has approved loans and allowed many small businesses to defer existing loan payments . at our insistence , bp is paying economic injury claims , and we ’ ll make sure that when all is said and done , the victims of this disaster will get the relief that they are owed . we ’ re not going to abandon our fellow citizens . we ’ ll help them recover and we will help them rebuild .
and unfortunately , too many politicians , they 're just climbing the ladder but they do n't know why . and when they get there , then they 're not very effective leaders . or they become much more subject to the temptations of corruption because all they 're worried about is i want to hang on to my power , and i ’ m willing to give up anything in you have to be willing to lose something for your principles .
you and your families have done your duty – now a grateful nation must do ours . that is why i am increasing the number of soldiers and marines , so that we lessen the burden on those who are serving . and that is why i have committed to expanding our system of veterans health care to serve more patients , and to provide better care in more places . we will continue building new wounded warrior facilities across america , and invest in new ways of identifying and treating the signature wounds of this war : post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury , as well as other combat injuries .
israel is a sovereign state , and the historic homeland of the jewish people . it should be clear to all that efforts to chip away at israel ’ s legitimacy will only be met by the unshakeable opposition of the united states . and efforts to threaten or kill israelis will do nothing to help the palestinian people . the slaughter of innocent israelis is not resistance -- it ’ s injustice . and make no mistake : the courage of a man like president abbas , who stands up for his people in front of the world under very difficult circumstances , is far greater than those who fire rockets at innocent women and children .
so now you have a choice , between a strategy that reverses this progress or one that builds on it . we 've opened millions of new acres for oil and gas exploration in the last three years , and we 'll open more . but unlike my opponent , i will not let oil companies write this country 's energy plan or endanger our coastlines or collect another four billion dollars in corporate welfare from our taxpayers . we 're offering a better path .
for if there is one law that we can be most certain of , it is the law that binds people of all faiths and no faith together . it 's no coincidence that it exists in christianity and judaism , in islam and hinduism , in buddhism and humanism .
but we ’ re going to have to see whether or not we can get a deal or not . my only question is why we keep on trying to short-circuit the actual negotiations . nobody is -- we ’ re not disarming . we ’ re not getting rid of our nuclear weapons . we ’ re not getting rid of our navy . we ’ re not giving anything up . we are simply waiting to see what it is that the negotiators come up with . and if , in fact , we are able to come up with something that works , then we ’ ll know .
so this just gives you an example of the incredible talent and commitment that these young people represent . and i want to close with a quick story that captures the spirit of our work together . thongvone sosamphan is here from laos . where ’ s -- please , stand up . so she ’ s here from laos . in atlanta , she visited the memorial and center honoring the reverend dr. martin luther king , jr. and she was struck by one of dr. king ’ s quotes , which says , “ life ’ s most persistent and urgent question is , ‘ what are you doing for others ? ’ ”
it won ’ t be easy , but it can be done . it can be our future . we have the talent and the resources and brainpower . but now we need the political will . we need a national commitment .
our cost-cutting measures mirror most of the proposals in the current senate bill , which reduces most people 's premiums and brings down our deficit by up to a trillion dollars over the next two decades -- brings down our deficit . those are n't my numbers ; those are the savings determined by the congressional budget office , which is the washington acronym for the nonpartisan , independent referee of congress in terms of how much stuff costs .
and so , surely , we can have a debate that 's not based on the notion somehow that your elected representatives are trying to do something to you other than potentially prevent another group of families from grieving the way the families of aurora or newtown or columbine have grieved .
so part of what our goal has been is to make sure that that individual market is stable and fair , and has the kind of consumer protections that make sure that people don ’ t get a rude surprise when they really need health insurance . but if you just got a cancellation notice , and so far you ’ re thinking , my prices are pretty good , you haven ’ t been sick , and it fits your budget , and now you get this notice -- you ’ re going to be worried about it . and if the insurer is saying the reason you ’ re getting this notice is because of the affordable care act , then you ’ re going to be understandably aggravated about it .
and it says every student deserves access to a quality , affordable education . every student should be able to access the resources to pay for college . every borrower has the right to an affordable repayment plan . every borrower has the right to quality customer service , reliable information , and fair treatment , even if they struggle to repay their loans .
now , a couple of months ago , yvonne and her class made a video talking about the impact that our struggling economy was having on their lives . and some of them spoke about their parents being laid off , or their homes facing foreclosure , or their inability to focus on school with everything that was happening at home . and when it was her turn to speak , yvonne said : `` we 've all been affected by this economic crisis . [ we ] are all college bound students ; we 're all businessmen , and doctors and lawyers and all this great stuff . and we have all this potential -- but the way things are going , we 're not going to be able to [ fulfill it ] . ''
most of all , even in our grief , we will be resolute . for we are americans , and we hold our head high knowing that because of these patriots -- because of you -- this country that we love will always shine as a light unto the world .
so yesterday , payton , her mom , and her sister , avery , joined me at ground zero . and now payton is 14. these past 10 years have been tough for her . in her letter , she said , “ ever since my father died , i lost a part of me that can never be replaced. ” and she describes her childhood as a “ little girl struggling to shine through all the darkness in her life . ”
when i first moved to chicago -- before any of the students in this room were born -- and a whole lot of people who are in the audience remember me from those days , i lived in a community on the south side right up the block , but i also worked further south where communities had been devastated by some of the steel plants closing . and my job was to work with churches and laypeople and local leaders to rebuild neighborhoods , and improve schools , and help young people who felt like they had nowhere to turn .
these men and women from across our country have done more than meet the challenges of this young century . through their extraordinary courage and confidence and commitment , these troops and veterans have proven themselves as a new generation of american leaders . and while our country has sometimes been divided , they have fought together as one . while other individuals and institutions have shirked responsibility , they have welcomed responsibility . while it was easy to be daunted by overwhelming challenges , the generation that has served in iraq has overcome every test before them .
as we consider the road that unfolds before us , we remember with humble gratitude those brave americans who , at this very hour , patrol far-off deserts and distant mountains . they have something to tell us , just as the fallen heroes who lie in arlington whisper through the ages . we honor them not only because they are the guardians of our liberty , but because they embody the spirit of service ; a willingness to find meaning in something greater than themselves . and yet , at this moment -- a moment that will define a generation -- it is precisely this spirit that must inhabit us all .
and for that reason , we think that land reclamation , aggressive actions by any party in that area are counterproductive . and we will continue as an asia pacific power to support all countries who are prepared to work with us to establish and enforce norms and rules that can continue growth and prosperity in the region . and the truth is , is that china is going to be successful . it ’ s big , it ’ s powerful , its people are talented and they work hard . and it may be that some of their claims are legitimate , but they shouldn ’ t just try to establish that based on throwing elbows and pushing people out of the way . if , in fact , their claims are legitimate , people will recognize them .
it was that failure of responsibility that i spoke about when i came to new york more than two years ago -- before the worst of the crisis had unfolded . it was back in 2007. and i take no satisfaction in noting that my comments then have largely been borne out by the events that followed . but i repeat what i said then because it is essential that we learn the lessons from this crisis so we don ’ t doom ourselves to repeat it . and make no mistake , that is exactly what will happen if we allow this moment to pass -- and that ’ s an outcome that is unacceptable to me and it ’ s unacceptable to you , the american people .
this is a city that knows something about manufacturing . for generations of americans , it was the ticket to a middle-class life . here and across america 's industrial heartland , millions clocked in each day at foundries and on assembly lines to make things . and the stuff we made -- steel , cars , planes -- was the stuff that made america what it is . the jobs were good . they paid enough to own a home , to raise kids , send them to college , to retire . they were jobs that told us something more important than just how much money we made , what was in our paycheck . these jobs also told us that we were meeting our responsibilities to our family and to our neighborhoods , and building our communities , and building our country .
but i do know that it is important if an opposition leader who is well known has been charged with a crime , that that process of how that is adjudicated and how open it is , and how clear the evidence is , that that is all subject to scrutiny . because what you don ’ t want is a situation in which the legitimacy of the process is questioned . that has an adverse impact on democracy as a whole . and i think we all have to guard against making sure that there ’ s not a chilling effect on potential opposition in government .
that is the story of normandy -- but also the story of america ; of the minutemen who gathered on a green in lexington ; of the union boys from maine who repelled a charge at gettysburg ; of the men who gave their last full measure of devotion at inchon and khe san ; of all the young men and women whose valor and goodness still carry forward this legacy of service and sacrifice .
every country charts its own course . russia has cut its way through time like a mighty river through a canyon , leaving an indelible mark on human history as it goes . as you move this story forward , look to the future that can be built if we refuse to be burdened by the old obstacles and old suspicions ; look to the future that can be built if we partner on behalf of the aspirations we hold in common . together , we can build a world where people are protected , prosperity is enlarged , and our power truly serves progress . and it is all in your hands . good luck to all of you .
they , followed by hundreds of thousands more , helped america write those early chapters . they helped us win our independence . they helped us draft our constitution . soon after , america returned to belfast , opening one of our very first consulates here in 1796 , when george washington was still president .
they , too , sometimes felt their hopes deflate . and yet , each season , the frost melts , the cold recedes , the sun reappears . so it was for earlier generations and so it will be for us
there was a young man named christopher lucas who was 26 years old . father of two daughters ; third daughter on the way . just like any other night , christopher was doing his job as manager on duty at pizza hut . and then he heard the storm coming .
let 's do more to help the entrepreneurs and small business owners who create most new jobs in america . over the past five years , my administration has made more loans to small business owners than any other . and when ninety-eight percent of our exporters are small businesses , new trade partnerships with europe and the asia-pacific will help them create more jobs . we need to work together on tools like bipartisan trade promotion authority to protect our workers , protect our environment , and open new markets to new goods stamped `` made in the usa . '' china and europe are n't standing on the sidelines . neither should we .
these traits were particularly evident during her tenure as dean . at a time when many believed that the harvard faculty had gotten a little one-sided in its viewpoint , she sought to recruit prominent conservative scholars and spur a healthy debate on campus . and she encouraged students from all backgrounds to respectfully exchange ideas and seek common ground -- because she believes , as i do , that exposure to a broad array of perspectives is the foundation not just for a sound legal education , but of a successful life in the law .
from the day i took office , i 've been told that addressing our larger challenges is too ambitious . such an effort would be too contentious . i 've been told that our political system is too gridlocked , and that we should just put things on hold for awhile . for those who make these claims , i have one simple question : how long should we wait ? how long should america put its future on hold ?
and the time has come to aggressively accelerate that transition . the time has come , once and for all , for this nation to fully embrace a clean energy future . now , that means continuing our unprecedented effort to make everything from our homes and businesses to our cars and trucks more energy-efficient . it means tapping into our natural gas reserves , and moving ahead with our plan to expand our nation ’ s fleet of nuclear power plants . it means rolling back billions of dollars of tax breaks to oil companies so we can prioritize investments in clean energy research and development .
i 'm also pleased to nominate general david petraeus to take command in afghanistan which will allows us to maintain the momentum and leadership that we need to succeed . i do n't make this decision based on any difference in policy with general mcchrystal , as we are in full agreement about our strategy . nor do i make this decision out of any sense of personal insult . stan mcchrystal has always shown great courtesy and carried out my orders faithfully . i 've got great admiration for him and for his long record of service in uniform .
our prosperity in the 20th century was fueled by an education system that helped grow the middle class and unleash the talents of our people more fully and widely than at any time in our history . we built schools and focused on the teaching of math and science . we helped a generation of veterans go to college through the gi bill . we led the globe in producing college graduates , and in turn we led in producing ground-breaking technologies and scientific discoveries that lifted living standards and set us apart as the world ’ s engine of innovation .
that is why we will provide the support necessary for you to complete college and meet a new goal : by 2020 , america will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world
now , today , i ’ m here not only as president . as i ’ ve mentioned before , i am also here as an adopted member of the crow nation . so i ’ d like to recognize my adoptive mom and dad , sonny and mary black eagle , who are backstage . they ’ re going to be coming out here in a little bit . i ’ m so grateful they took me into their family . i bet they ’ re grateful that i never went through the “ terrible twos ” -- or “ terrible teens. ” they got me after i was a little more polished .
i am also -- i ’ m also well aware that there are many republicans who don ’ t believe we should raise taxes on those who are most fortunate and can best afford it .
israel is already a center for innovation that helps power the global economy . and i believe that all of that potential for prosperity can be enhanced with greater security , enhanced with lasting peace .
which brings me to the last ingredient in a functioning democracy , one that 's perhaps most basic -- and it ’ s already been mentioned -- and that is participation . class of 2010 , i understand that one effect of today ’ s poisonous political climate is to push people away from participation in public life . if all you see when you turn on the tv is name-calling , if all you hear about is how special interest lobbying and partisanship prevented washington from getting something done , you might think to yourself , “ what ’ s the point of getting involved ? ”
the 21st century government that ’ s open and competent . a government that lives within its means . an economy that ’ s driven by new skills and new ideas . our success in this new and changing world will require reform , responsibility , and innovation . it will also require us to approach that world with a new level of engagement in our foreign affairs .
today , after over a year of debate -- today , after all the votes have been tallied , health insurance reform becomes law in the united states of america -- today . it is fitting that congress passed this historic legislation this week . for as we mark the turning of spring , we also mark a new season in america . in a few moments , when i sign this bill , all of the overheated rhetoric over reform will finally confront the reality of reform .
so this isn ’ t radical reform . but it is major reform . this legislation will not fix everything that ails our health care system . but it moves us decisively in the right direction . this is what change looks like .
and today , we ’ re taking an additional step -- which is why there ’ s a desk here . you were wondering , i 'm sure . i ’ m signing a new executive order to promote even more information sharing about cyber threats , both within the private sector and between government and the private sector . and it will encourage more companies and industries to set up organizations -- hubs -- so you can share information with each other . it will call for a common set of standards , including protections for privacy and civil liberties , so that government can share threat information with these hubs more easily . and it can help make it easier for companies to get the classified cybersecurity threat information that they need to protect their companies .
we ’ ve gone through the budget , line by line , and identified more than 120 programs for elimination . we ’ ve restored a simple budgeting rule that every family and business understands called pay-as-you-go .
this program was inspired by leaders like peter spokes , who was the executive director of the national center for fathering -- a good friend to many in our administration , all of whom were deeply saddened by his recent passing . and we are honored to have peter ’ s wife , barbara , with us here today . where ’ s barbara ? i just saw her earlier . there she is . thank you .
here are the facts we all must confront . first , the number of palestinians living west of the jordan river is growing rapidly and fundamentally reshaping the demographic realities of both israel and the palestinian territories . this will make it harder and harder -- without a peace deal -- to maintain israel as both a jewish state and a democratic state .
we call for the immediate release of all who have been unjustly detained within iran . we will continue to bear witness to the extraordinary events that are taking place there . and i 'm confident that history will be on the side of those who seek justice .
so i want to be very clear -- some of the hype that we 've been hearing over the last day or so -- nobody is listening to the content of people 's phone calls . this program , by the way , is fully overseen not just by congress , but by the fisa court -- a court specially put together to evaluate classified programs to make sure that the executive branch , or government generally , is not abusing them , and that it 's being carried out consistent with the constitution and rule of law .
because of our recovery plan , schools and police departments have cancelled planned layoffs ; clean energy companies and construction companies are re-hiring workers to build everything from energy-efficient windows to new roads and highways . our housing plan has helped lead to a spike in the number of homeowners who are taking advantage of historically-low mortgage rates by refinancing , which is like putting a $ 2,000 tax cut in your pocket . our program to support the market for auto loans and student loans has started to unfreeze this market and securitize more of this lending in the last few weeks . and small businesses are seeing a jump in loan activity for the first time in months .
but even the best intelligence ca n't identify in advance every individual who would do us harm . so we need the security -- at our airports , ports , and borders , and through our partnerships with other nations -- to prevent terrorists from entering america .
today , our nation is strengthened by millions of muslim americans . they excel in every walk of life . muslim american communities -- including mosques in all 50 states -- also serve their neighbors . muslim americans protect our communities as police officers and firefighters and first responders . muslim american clerics have spoken out against terror and extremism , reaffirming that islam teaches that one must save human life , not take it . and muslim americans serve with honor in our military . at next week ’ s iftar at the pentagon , tribute will be paid to three soldiers who gave their lives in iraq and now rest among the heroes of arlington national cemetery .
now , the true engine of job creation in this country will always be america 's businesses . ( i agree . absolutely ) . but government can create the conditions necessary for businesses to expand and hire more workers . we should start where most new jobs do -- in small businesses , companies that begin when -- companies that begin when an entrepreneur -- when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream , or a worker decides its time she became her own boss .
and general petraeus and i were able to spend some time this morning discussing the way forward . i 'm extraordinarily grateful that he has agreed to serve in this new capacity . it should be clear to everybody he does so at great personal sacrifice to himself and to his family . and he is setting an extraordinary example of service and patriotism by assuming this difficult post .
the apache gunships above saw it all , but couldn ’ t engage with the enemy so close to our soldiers . the next platoon heard the shooting , but were too far away to join the fight in time .
everyone here knows that small businesses are where most new jobs begin . and you know that while corporate profits have come roaring back , smaller companies haven ’ t . so for everyone who speaks so passionately about making life easier for “ job creators , ” this plan is for you .
jim 's silver star is a proud part of that legacy . he will bring to the job the dual experience of serving in uniform and as a diplomat . he has commanded a platoon in battle , served as supreme allied commander in a time of war , and worked on behalf of peace in the middle east .
this is what we have already done . but this is just a beginning . some of our actions have yielded progress . some have laid the groundwork for progress in the future . but make no mistake : this can not solely be america 's endeavor . those who used to chastise america for acting alone in the world can not now stand by and wait for america to solve the world 's problems alone . we have sought -- in word and deed -- a new era of engagement with the world . and now is the time for all of us to take our share of responsibility for a global response to global challenges .
and of course , what ’ s stranger still is that shutting down our government doesn ’ t accomplish their stated goal . the affordable care act is a law that passed the house ; it passed the senate . the supreme court ruled it constitutional . it was a central issue in last year ’ s election . it is settled , and it is here to stay . and because of its funding sources , it ’ s not impacted by a government shutdown .
i understand that president musharraf has his own challenges . but let me make this clear . there are terrorists holed up in those mountains who murdered 3,000 americans . they are plotting to strike again . it was a terrible mistake to fail to act when we had a chance to take out an al qaeda leadership meeting in 2005. if we have actionable intelligence about high-value terrorist targets and president musharraf won ’ t act , we will .
at the same time , we have to renew our economic strength here at home , which is the foundation of our strength around the world . and that includes putting our fiscal house in order . to that end , the budget control act passed by congress last year -- with the support of republicans and democrats alike -- mandates reductions in federal spending , including defense spending . i 've insisted that we do that responsibly . the security of our nation and the lives of our men and women in uniform depend on it .
and you have borne an enormous burden for your fellow citizens , while extending a precious opportunity to the people of iraq . under tough circumstances , the men and women of the united states military have served with honor , and succeeded beyond any expectation
now , the notion that we would not do that , but instead the speaker would run a play that keeps tax cuts for folks making $ 500,000 or $ 700,000 or $ 800,000 or $ 900,000 a year , and gives more tax breaks to millionaires and billionaires , and raises taxes on middle-class families , and then has no cuts in it -- which is what he says he wants -- doesn ’ t make much sense .
and it ’ s why we need to ensure that our competitors play fair and our agreements are enforced . this , too , is part of building a new foundation now , some of you may have noticed that we have been building this foundation without much help from our friends in the other party . from our efforts to rescue the economy , to health insurance reform , to financial reform , most have sat on the sidelines and shouted from the bleachers . they said no to tax cuts for small businesses ; no to tax credits for college tuition ; no to investments in clean energy . they said no to protecting patients from insurance companies and consumers from big banks .
but the devastation remains . one in ten americans still can not find work . many businesses have shuttered . home values have declined . small towns and rural communities have been hit especially hard . and for those who had already known poverty , life 's become that much harder .
in closing , i want to say one of the areas i ’ ll be working with congress is to ensure that we don ’ t let any disagreements keep us from fulfilling our most basic responsibilities . last week ’ s attack in paris was a painful reminder that we have no greater duty than the security of the american people . and our national security should never be subject to partisan political games . congress needs to fully fund our department of homeland security , without delay , so that the dedicated public servants working here can operate with the certainty and confidence they need to keep the american people safe . and that 's true across the board in the department of homeland security .
that 's why , tomorrow , i will direct the treasury to create a new way for working americans to start their own retirement savings : myra . it 's a new savings bond that encourages folks to build a nest egg .
in fact , much of the debate in washington has put forward a false choice when it comes to libya . on the one hand , some question why america should intervene at all -- even in limited ways -- in this distant land . they argue that there are many places in the world where innocent civilians face brutal violence at the hands of their government , and america should not be expected to police the world , particularly when we have so many pressing needs here at home .
america never makes a claim about being perfect . we do make a claim about being open to change . so i would just say that we can , i suppose , spend a lot of time talking about past grievances , and i suppose that it ’ s possible to use the united states as a handy excuse every so often for political problems that may be occurring domestically . but that ’ s not going to bring progress . that ’ s not going to solve the problems of children who can ’ t read , who don ’ t have enough to eat . it ’ s not going to make our countries more productive or more competitive in a global economy .
so promoting shared prosperity , preserving peace and security , strengthening democratic governance and human rights -- these are the responsibilities of leadership . and as global partners , this is the leadership that the united states and india can offer in the 21st century . ultimately , though , this can not be a relationship only between presidents and prime ministers , or in the halls of this parliament . ultimately , this must be a partnership between our peoples . so i want to conclude by speaking directly to the people of india who are watching today .
the jonas brothers are here . they 're out there somewhere . sasha and malia are huge fans . but , boys , do n't get any ideas . i have two words for you -- predator drones . you will never see it coming . you think i 'm joking .
but i also know that in a time of crisis , we can not afford to govern out of anger , or yield to the politics of the moment . my job – our job – is to solve the problem . our job is to govern with a sense of responsibility . i will not spend a single penny for the purpose of rewarding a single wall street executive , but i will do whatever it takes to help the small business that can ’ t pay its workers or the family that has saved and still can ’ t get a mortgage .
and of course , our extraordinary first lady , michelle obama . everybody loves michelle . she ’ s on the cover of vogue , high poll numbers . but don ’ t worry -- i recently got my own magazine cover .
so , eight years ago , i came here to deliver the commencement address for the class of 2005. things were a little different back then . for example , i had no gray hair -- or a motorcade . didn ’ t even have a prompter . in fact , there was a problem in terms of printing out the speech because the printer didn ’ t work here and we had to drive it in from somewhere . but it was my first big speech as your newest senator .
she said , “ am i dreaming , or is this really happening ? ” so it ’ s really happening you come from all 10 asean nations , from capital cities and rural towns . you represent different faiths and backgrounds , and different beliefs . obviously , there are men and women here -- in fact , the majority are women -- because one of the best measures of a country ’ s success is whether it empowers women and girls . and you ’ re all bound together by a common belief that you have the talent and the drive and the power to improve the lives of your fellow human beings .
now , here ’ s what would work . what would work would be for us to say we ’ ve already done close to $ 2 trillion in deficit reduction , and if you add the interest that we won ’ t be paying because of less spending and increased revenue , it adds up to about $ 2.5 trillion . the consensus is we need about $ 4 trillion to stabilize our debt and our deficit , which means we need about $ 1.5 trillion more . the package that i offered to speaker boehner before we -- before the new year would achieve that . we were actually fairly close in terms of arriving at that number .
and then there were the scenes of the schoolchildren , helping one another , holding each other , dutifully following instructions in the way that young children sometimes do ; one child even trying to encourage a grown-up by saying , `` i know karate . so it ’ s okay . i ’ ll lead the way out . ''
meanwhile , as we speak , our troops are supporting our ally japan , leaving iraq to its people , stopping the taliban ’ s momentum in afghanistan , and going after al qaeda all across the globe . as commander-in-chief , i ’ m grateful to our soldiers , sailors , airmen , marines , coast guardsmen , and to their families . and i know all americans share in that sentiment .
the plan that has made all of this possible , from the tax cuts to the jobs , is the recovery act . that 's right : the recovery act , also known as the stimulus bill .
other of these groups are simply collections of local militias or extremists interested in seizing territory . and while we are vigilant for signs that these groups may pose a transnational threat , most are focused on operating in the countries and regions where they are based .
in the face of these challenges , too many leaders in the region tried to direct their people ’ s grievances elsewhere . the west was blamed as the source of all ills , a half-century after the end of colonialism . antagonism toward israel became the only acceptable outlet for political expression . divisions of tribe , ethnicity and religious sect were manipulated as a means of holding on to power , or taking it away from somebody else .
and it ’ s why we passed reform that finally prevents the health insurance industry from exploiting patients now , i have heard rumors that a few of you still have concerns about our new health care law . so let me be the first to say that anything can be improved . if you have ideas about how to improve this law by making care better or more affordable , i am eager to work with you . we can start right now by correcting a flaw in the legislation that has placed an unnecessary bookkeeping burden on small businesses .
the president : i will gladly come back . governor bentley : thank you , sir . the president : mr. mayor , if you ’ d like to say a few words . mayor maddox : mr. president , governor , mrs. obama , thank you for coming today . the last 36 hours have been probably the most trying time in this community ’ s history . but you ’ re going to see a new story being written here in tuscaloosa . and in the years to come these chapters are going to be fueled with hope and opportunity .
but we need to meet the moment . we ’ ve got to up our game . we need to remember that we can only do that together . it starts by making education a national mission -- a national mission .
i mean , if an f-22 raptor can fly at the speed of -- faster than the speed of sound on biomass , then i know the old beater that you ’ ve got , that you ’ re driving around in -- can probably do so , too .
now , i want to tell you , it is an honor to speak to the ana , representing more than 3 million registered nurses across the country . part of the reason i ’ m here is because i promised i was going to come , and i told to becky that i don ’ t break promises to nurses because you never know when i ’ m going to need a shot . and i don ’ t want them working that needle all kind of -- “ i can ’ t find a vein. ” so i ’ m keeping my promises .
first , we have to confront squarely and honestly the twisted ideologies that these terrorist groups use to incite people to violence . leading up to this summit , there ’ s been a fair amount of debate in the press and among pundits about the words we use to describe and frame this challenge . so i want to be very clear about how i see it .
now , to make sure we stay on this goal we ’ re going to need to do more -- by offering more powerful incentives to consumers , and by rewarding the communities that pave the way for the adoption of these vehicles .
by the way , that $ 90 billion represents about one-eighth of the amount these banks will pay out in bonuses over the same time period in time now , finally , the fourth component in improving our fiscal health is the bipartisan fiscal commission that i ’ ve established that will provide a specific set of solutions by the fall to deal with our medium- and long-term deficit .
today -- even as terrorists try to derail iraq 's progress -- because of the sacrifices of our troops and their iraqi partners , violence in iraq continues to be near the lowest it 's been in years . and next month , we will change our military mission from combat to supporting and training iraqi security forces . in fact , in many parts of the country , iraqis have already taken the lead for security .
moreover , even if we do get a good deal , there remains the broader issue of iran ’ s support for terrorism and regional destabilization , and ugly threats against israel . and that ’ s why our strategic partnership with israel will remain , no matter what happens in the days and years ahead . and that ’ s why the people of israel must always know america has its back , and america will always have its back .
and years from now when you return here , when for you the shadows have grown longer , i have no doubt that you will have added your name to the book of history . i have no doubt that we will have prevailed in the struggles of our times . i have no doubt that your legacy will be an america that has emerged stronger , and a world that is more just , because we are americans , and our destiny is never written for us , it is written by us , and we are ready to lead once more .
in words and deeds , we are showing the world that a new era of engagement has begun . for we know that america can not meet the threats of this century alone , but the world can not meet them without america . we can not shun the negotiating table , nor ignore the foes or forces that could do us harm . we are instead called to move forward with the sense of confidence and candor that serious times demand .
he shared a complicated relationship with presidents of both parties , who wanted him on their side even as they were convinced that he was n't . president johnson called walter after the evening news from time to time to voice his displeasure over a certain story . but walter knew that if he was receiving vociferous complaints from both sides , he must be doing his job .
last question . q : america has spent 800 billion dollars in iraq . do you anticipate having to ask congress for additional funds to support this mission ? the president : currently , we are operating within the budget constraints that we already have . and we ’ ll have to evaluate what happens over time . we already have a lot of assets in the region . we anticipate , when we make our preliminary budgets , that there may be things that come up requiring us to engage . and right now , at least , i think we are okay . if and when we need additional dollars to make sure that american personnel and american facilities are protected , then we will certainly make that request . but right now , that ’ s not our primary concern .
in that effort , the united states will play a supporting role -- including intelligence , logistical support , search and rescue assistance , and capabilities to jam regime communications . because of this transition to a broader , nato-based coalition , the risk and cost of this operation -- to our military and to american taxpayers -- will be reduced significantly .
now , the good news is that for the first time in many years , republicans and democrats seem ready to tackle this problem together . members of both parties , in both chambers , are actively working on a solution . yesterday , a bipartisan group of senators announced their principles for comprehensive immigration reform , which are very much in line with the principles i ’ ve proposed and campaigned on for the last few years . so at this moment , it looks like there ’ s a genuine desire to get this done soon , and that ’ s very encouraging .
we now have nearly 30,000 personnel who are working across four states to contain and clean up the oil . thousands of ships and other vessels are responding in the gulf . and i ’ ve authorized the deployment of over 17,000 national guard members along the coast .
imagine what a child feels the first time she steps onto that floor , before she ’ s old enough to be cynical ; before she ’ s told what she can ’ t do ; before she ’ s told who she can ’ t talk to or work with ; what she feels when she sits at one of those desks ; what happens when it comes her turn to stand and speak on behalf of something she cares about ; and cast a vote , and have a sense of purpose .
audience member : i love you , mr. president . the president : i appreciate that . here 's what we 've got to do . we have to tell congress it 's time to require a background check for anyone who wants to buy a gun so that people who are dangerous to themselves and others can not get their hands on a gun . let 's make that happen .
president obama : a slightly early shabbat shalom . i want to thank rabbi steinlauf for the very kind introduction . and to all the members of the congregation , thank you so much for such an extraordinary and warm welcome .
peter orszag , my incoming budget director , closed out the proceedings with an entirely dismal report on the fiscal health of the country , with growing deficits and debt stretching to the horizon . having concluded that it was too late for me to request a recount -- i tasked my team with mapping out a plan to tackle the crisis on all fronts
and tonight , let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11 . i know that it has , at times , frayed . yet today ’ s achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and the determination of the american people .
good evening . today i authorized two operations in iraq -- targeted airstrikes to protect our american personnel , and a humanitarian effort to help save thousands of iraqi civilians who are trapped on a mountain without food and water and facing almost certain death . let me explain the actions we ’ re taking and why .
i ’ ll give you a perfect example . the americans have the v-22 osprey aircraft , which is quite a significant upgrade in capabilities in terms of reaching out to very remote areas . we don ’ t have a comparable aircraft . we have smaller helicopters . and we had 44 of our provinces devastated by typhoon haiyan . now , the training will not just train our people on how to operate this particular aircraft , but more importantly , even help the office of civil defense , for instance , manage this resource in case a storm or another natural disaster of the scale that transpired does happen .
i am in this race to tell the corporate lobbyists that their days of setting the agenda in washington are over . i have done more than any other candidate in this race to take on lobbyists -- and won . they have not funded my campaign , they will not get a job in my white house , and they will not drown out the voices of the american people when i am president .
we meet today at a transformational moment -- a moment in history when our interconnected world presents us , at once , with great promise but also great peril . now , over the past four months my administration has taken decisive steps to seize the promise and confront these perils . we 're working to recover from a global recession while laying a new foundation for lasting prosperity . we 're strengthening our armed forces as they fight two wars , at the same time we 're renewing american leadership to confront unconventional challenges , from nuclear proliferation to terrorism , from climate change to pandemic disease . and we 're bringing to government -- and to this white house -- unprecedented transparency and accountability and new ways for americans to participate in their democracy .
but we must also admit that programs alone ca n't replace parents , that government ca n't turn off the television and make a child do her homework , that fathers must take more responsibility to provide love and guidance to their children .
what king was describing has been the dream of every american . it 's what 's lured for centuries new arrivals to our shores . and it ’ s along this second dimension -- of economic opportunity , the chance through honest toil to advance one ’ s station in life -- where the goals of 50 years ago have fallen most short .
second , we will reform programs and procedures in place to provide greater transparency to our surveillance activities , and fortify the safeguards that protect the privacy of u.s. persons . since we began this review , including information being released today , we have declassified over 40 opinions and orders of the foreign intelligence surveillance court , which provides judicial review of some of our most sensitive intelligence activities -- including the section 702 program targeting foreign individuals overseas , and the section 215 telephone metadata program .
the framers who drafted the constitution could not have foreseen the challenges that have unfolded over the last 222 years . but our constitution has endured through secession and civil rights , through world war and cold war , because it provides a foundation of principles that can be applied pragmatically ; it provides a compass that can help us find our way .
are we a nation that accepts the cruelty of ripping children from their parents ’ arms ? or are we a nation that values families , and works together to keep them together ? are we a nation that educates the world ’ s best and brightest in our universities , only to send them home to create businesses in countries that compete against us ? or are we a nation that encourages them to stay and create jobs here , create businesses here , create industries right here in america ?
but the question you ’ re going to have to ask yourself when you caucus in january and you vote in november is , “ what ’ s next for america ? ” we are in a defining moment in our history . our nation is at war . the planet is in peril . the dream that so many generations fought for feels as if it ’ s slowly slipping away . we are working harder for less . we ’ ve never paid more for health care or for college . it ’ s harder to save and it ’ s harder to retire . and most of all we ’ ve lost faith that our leaders can or will do anything about it .
it turns out 90 percent of americans think so . ninety percent of americans support universal background checks . think about that . how often do 90 percent of americans agree on anything ? and yet , 90 percent agree on this -- republicans , democrats , folks who own guns , folks who do n't own guns ; 80 percent of republicans , more than 80 percent of gun owners , more than 70 percent of nra households . it is common sense .
we shouldn ’ t fool ourselves . the task will not be easy . since 1963 , the economy has changed . the twin forces of technology and global competition have subtracted those jobs that once provided a foothold into the middle class -- reduced the bargaining power of american workers .
as i said throughout the campaign , i will be giving secretary gates and our military a new mission as soon as i take office : responsibly ending the war in iraq through a successful transition to iraqi control . we will also ensure that we have the strategy and resources to succeed against al qaeda and the taliban . as bob said not too long ago , afghanistan is where the war on terror began , and it is where it must end . and going forward , we will continue to make the investments necessary to strengthen our military and increase our ground forces to defeat the threats of the 21st century .
today we say goodbye to the youngest child of rose and joseph kennedy . the world will long remember their son edward as the heir to a weighty legacy ; a champion for those who had none ; the soul of the democratic party ; and the lion of the u.s. senate - a man whose name graces nearly one thousand laws , and who penned more than three hundred himself .
environmental issues i ’ ve already mentioned . this is a very fast-growing region , and it is important to make sure that there ’ s a lot of cooperation between countries because small fisheries , et cetera -- those don ’ t always observe national boundaries . and so , working together , you can accomplish more .
question : good afternoon , your excellencies . president aquino , president obama -- welcome to the philippines . my questions are : how did the united states reassure the philippines that the u.s. is genuinely committed to countering an increasingly assertive china in the region ? will the u.s. defend the philippines in case the territorial dispute with china in the west philippine sea or the south china sea becomes an armed conflict ? and how do you think will china react to the enhanced defense cooperation agreement ? and what are you going to do with this that is consistent with your position to have the territorial disputes resolved in arbitration ? thank you .
it would cripple our competiveness and our ability to win the jobs of the future . and it would also mean asking sacrifice of seniors and the middle class and the poor , while asking nothing of the wealthiest americans and biggest corporations
so let me just repeat : if the issue is deficit reduction , getting our deficits sustainable over time , getting our debt in a sustainable place , then democrats and republicans in congress will have a partner with me .
senate president : senator 's time has expired . senator obama : -- to amend this problem . thank you . thank you so much . thank you . thank you . thank you so much . thank you so much . thank you . thank you . thank you , dick durbin . you make us all proud .
the promise written down on paper -- `` all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights '' -- is closer at hand but let us remember : peace is hard . peace is hard . progress can be reversed . prosperity comes slowly . societies can split apart . the measure of our success must be whether people can live in sustained freedom , dignity , and security . and the united nations and its member states must do their part to support those basic aspirations . and we have more work to do .
and so i 've instructed the fbi and the department of homeland security and our intelligence community to continue to deploy all the necessary resources to support the investigation , to collect intelligence , and to protect our citizens . we will determine what happened . we will investigate any associations that these terrorists may have had . and we 'll continue to do whatever we have to do to keep our people safe .
as we meet here tonight , our men and women in uniform stand watch abroad and more are readying to deploy . to each and every one of them , and to the families who bear the quiet burden of their absence , americans are united in sending one message : we honor your service , we are inspired by your sacrifice , and you have our unyielding support . to relieve the strain on our forces , my budget increases the number of our soldiers and marines . and to keep our sacred trust with those who serve , we will raise their pay , and give our veterans the expanded health care and benefits that they have earned .
in fact , to every young person listening tonight who ’ s contemplating their career choice : if you want to make a difference in the life of our nation ; if you want to make a difference in the life of a child -- become a teacher . your country needs you .
of course , it ’ s not enough for us to increase student aid . we can ’ t just keep subsidizing skyrocketing tuition ; we ’ ll run out of money . states also need to do their part , by making higher education a higher priority in their budgets . and colleges and universities have to do their part by working to keep costs down .
may god watch over your families and all who loved them and may god bless these united states of america . thank you , so much . thank you . thank you very much , everybody . thank you .
i don ’ t think that ’ s too much to ask . i do not think that is partisan . the majority of the american people agree with me . the majority of newport news agrees with me . we need to get this done .
ted cruz said that denying the existence of climate change made him like galileo . now that 's not really an apt comparison . galileo believed the earth revolves around the sun . ted cruz believes the earth revolves around ted cruz . and just as an aside , i want to point out , when a guy who has his face on a `` hope '' poster calls you self-centered , you know you 've got a problem . the narcissism index is creeping up a little too high .
as a nation , we have had our share of debates about the war in iraq . it has , at times , divided us as a people . to this very day , there are some americans who want to stay in iraq longer , and some who want to leave faster . but there should be no disagreement on what the men and women of our military have achieved .
let me -- let me express -- let me express my thanks to the historic slate of candidates who accompanied on this journey , and especially the one who traveled the farthest , a champion for working americans and an inspiration to my daughters and yours : hillary rodham clinton .
i 've said i 'm willing to make some cuts . what separates us is probably a few hundred billion dollars . the idea that we would put our economy at risk because you ca n't bridge that gap doesn ’ t make a lot of sense .
but we ’ re not done yet . the key now is to encourage homeownership that isn ’ t based on unrealistic bubbles , but instead is based on a solid foundation , where buyers and lenders play by the same set of rules , rules that are clear and transparent and fair .
the question , then , before us is no longer the nature of the challenge . the question is our capacity to meet it . for while the reality of climate change is not in doubt , i have to be honest , as the world watches us today , i think our ability to take collective action is in doubt right now , and it hangs in the balance .
and yet , for much of the last century , we have been having the same argument with folks who keep peddling some version of trickle-down economics . they keep telling us that if we ’ d convert more of our investments in education and research and health care into tax cuts -- especially for the wealthy -- our economy will grow stronger .
everyone in this room knows what will happen if we do nothing . our deficit will grow . more families will go bankrupt . more businesses will close . more americans will lose their coverage when they are sick and need it the most . and more will die as a result . we know these things to be true .
thank you . god bless you . and god bless the united states of america . thank you , so much . vice president biden , mr. chief justice , members of the united states congress , distinguished guests , and fellow citizens , each time we gather to inaugurate a president , we bear witness to the enduring strength of our constitution . we affirm the promise of our democracy . we recall that what binds this nation together is not the colors of our skin or the tenets of our faith or the origins of our names .
that ’ s the legacy that your generation has forged during this decade of trial in iraq and here in afghanistan . that ’ s the legacy that you ’ re carrying forward . as general petraeus mentioned , one year ago i ordered additional troops to serve in this country that was the staging ground for the 9/11 attacks . all of those troops are now in place . and thanks to your service , we are making important progress . you are protecting your country . you ’ re achieving your objectives . you will succeed in your mission . hooah !
but -- and here 's my final point -- to take advantage of these marketplaces , folks are going to need to sign up . so you can find out how to sign up at healthcare.gov , or here in california you can sign up at coveredca.com . because quality care is not something that should be a privilege , it should be a right . in the greatest country on earth , we 've got to make sure that every single person that needs health care can get it . and we 've got to make sure that we do it in the most efficient way possible .
so no , i do not make this decision lightly . i make this decision because i am convinced that our security is at stake in afghanistan and pakistan . this is the epicenter of violent extremism practiced by al qaeda .
now , having said that , investigations have been done . anybody who has been killed obviously is a victim , and investigations have been ongoing . if at times we do not reveal the discoveries by our intelligence agencies and security services , perhaps we are very sensitive to personal relationships by the people who are deceased who were killed not because of professional activities , but , shall we say , other issues . but having said that , they were killed . that is against the law . and the people will have to be found , prosecuted and sent to jail .
just to take one example : as the united states begins a new chapter in our relationship with cuba , we hope it will create an environment that improves the lives of the cuban people -– not because it ’ s imposed by us , the united states , but through the talent and ingenuity and aspirations , and the conversation among cubans from all walks of life so they can decide what the best course is for their prosperity .
so he 's the point person on it . the only reason he 's not here is because he is working alongside the administration to get this bill done . please give him a big round of applause .
and we also know that in the 21st century , security is more complex than military power . this is the generation that must also stop the spread of the pollution that is slowly killing our planet , from shrinking coastlines and devastating storms to widespread misery and famine and drought . the effects of climate change are now in plain sight .
so this has been a remarkable year . the qaddafi regime is over . gbagbo , ben ali , mubarak are no longer in power . osama bin laden is gone , and the idea that change could only come through violence has been buried with him .
i 've got a terrific secretary of education , arne duncan . he 's been working hard with states and working hard with the d.c. school district , and we 've insisted on reform , and we 've insisted on accountability .
now , jill has been teaching english at community colleges for 20 years . she started when she was like 15. and she ’ s still full-time today . and she sees -- i talk to her and she talks about her students , and she can see the excitement and the promise , and sometimes the fear of being a 32-year-old mom who ’ s going back to school and never finished the degree that she had started , and life got in the way and now she ’ s coming back and suddenly getting a whole new skills set and seeing a whole range of career options opening up to her . it ’ s exciting .
and if you will join with me in this improbable quest , if you feel destiny calling , and see as i see , the future of endless possibility stretching out before us ; if you sense , as i sense , that the time is now to shake off our slumber , and slough off our fears , and make good on the debt we owe past and future generations , then i am ready to take up the cause , and march with you , and work with you -- today .
so history reminds us that walls can be torn down . but the task is never easy . true partnership and true progress requires constant work and sustained sacrifice . they require sharing the burdens of development and diplomacy ; of peace and progress . they require allies who will listen to each other , learn from each other and , most of all , trust each other .
but the most amazing thing of all is that after that day , after john lewis was beaten within an inch of his life , after people 's heads were gashed open and their eyes were burned , and they watched their children 's innocence literally beaten out of them -- after all that , they went back and marched again . they marched again . they crossed the bridge . they awakened a nation 's conscience . and not five months later the voting rights act of 1965 was signed into law . it was reauthorized in 1970 , in 1975 , and 1982 .
after all , immigrants helped start businesses like google and yahoo ! . they created entire new industries that , in turn , created new jobs and new prosperity for our citizens . in recent years , one in four high-tech startups in america were founded by immigrants . one in four new small business owners were immigrants , including right here in nevada -- folks who came here seeking opportunity and now want to share that opportunity with other americans .
at the same time , libya is a lesson in what the international community can achieve when we stand together as one . i said at the beginning of this process , we can not and should not intervene every time there is an injustice in the world . yet it ’ s also true that there are times where the world could have and should have summoned the will to prevent the killing of innocents on a horrific scale . and we are forever haunted by the atrocities that we did not prevent , and the lives that we did not save . but this time was different . this time , we , through the united nations , found the courage and the collective will to act .
but we have to do more . these steps we ’ ve taken over the last two years may have broken the back of this recession , but to win the future , we ’ ll need to take on challenges that have been decades in the making .
the longer we put this off , the more expensive it will be and the less competitive we will be . businesses of tomorrow will not locate near old roads and outdated ports . they ’ ll relocate to places with high-speed internet , and high-tech schools , and systems that move air and auto traffic faster , and not to mention will get parents home quicker from work because we ’ ll be eliminating some of these traffic jams . and we can watch all of that happen in other countries , and start falling behind , or we can choose to make it happen right here , in the united states .
finally , to coordinate a global response to this global recession , i went to the meeting of the g20 nations in london the other week . each nation has undertaken significant stimulus to spur demand . all agreed to pursue tougher regulatory reforms . we also agreed to triple the lending capacity of the international monetary fund -- which , as many of you know , is an international financial institution supported by all the major economies -- so that they can provide direct assistance to developing nations and vulnerable populations . that 's not just charity ; because america 's success depends on whether other nations have the ability to buy what we sell , it 's important that we pay attention to these emerging markets .
so , class of 2011 , the hard road does not end here . your journey has just begun . your diploma is not a free pass . it wo n't protect you against every setback or challenge or mistake . you 'll make some , i promise . you 're going to have to keep working hard . you 're going to have to keep pushing yourselves . and you 'll find yourselves sometime in situations where folks have had an easier time , they 're a little bit ahead of you , and you 're going to have to work harder than they are . and you may be frustrated by that .
now , the challenge going forward is that we 've now made some big cuts , and if we 're going to do further deficit reduction , the only way to do it is in a balanced and responsible way .
fourth , we need to invest in the skills and education of our people . now , this year -- this year we 've broken through the stalemate between left and right by launching a national competition to improve our schools . and the idea here is simple : instead of rewarding failure , we only reward success . instead of funding the status quo , we only invest in reform -- reform that raises student achievement , inspires students to excel in math and science , and turns around failing schools that steal the future of too many young americans , from rural communities to the inner city . in the 21st century , the best anti-poverty program around is a world-class education . and in this country , the success of our children can not depend more on where they live than on their potential .
and part of what we ’ re trying to do here is also to see where are some resources that can be brought to bear that maybe traditionally are not used in these kind of disaster situations . for example , there may be military assets that allow us to help move equipment to ensure that pumping and getting the flooding out of new york subway systems can proceed more quickly . there may be resources that we can bring to bear to help some of the private utilities get their personnel and their equipment in place more swiftly so that we can get power up and running as soon as possible .
for you remind us that in the end , human destiny is not determined by forces beyond our control . you remind us that our future is not shaped by mere chance or circumstance . our history has always been the sum total of the choices made and the actions taken by each individual man and woman . it has always been up to us .
this review also benefits from the contributions of leaders from across my national security team -- from the departments of state , homeland security and veterans affairs , as well as the intelligence community . and this is critical , because meeting the challenges of our time can not be the work of our military alone -- or the united states alone . it requires all elements of our national power , working together in concert with our allies and our partners .
the medal of honor reflects the gratitude of an entire nation . so we are also joined here today by several members of congress , including both senators and several representatives from staff sergeant giunta ’ s home state of iowa . we are also joined by leaders from across my administration and the department of defense , including the secretary of defense , robert gates ; chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , admiral mike mullen . where ’ s mike ? there he is , right there . army secretary john mchugh ; and chief of staff of the army , general george casey .
only government can break the cycle that are [ sic ] crippling our economy , where a lack of spending leads to lost jobs , which leads to even less spending , where an inability to lend and borrow stops growth and leads to even less credit .
i want to give a shout-out to our headliner , conan o ’ brien . i was just talking to ed , and i understand that when the correspondents ’ association was considering conan for this gig , they were faced with that age-old dilemma : do you offer it to him now , or wait for five years and then give it to jimmy fallon ? that was a little harsh . i love conan .
so i ’ m 99th in seniority , and all the reporters are crammed into the tiny transition office that i have , which is right next to the janitor ’ s closet in the basement of the dirksen office building .
and that ’ s what members of congress need to hear from you . right now , members of congress are at home in their districts . many of them are holding events where they can hear from their constituents .
the kids at sandy hook were where they were supposed to be . so were those moviegoers in aurora . so were those worshippers in oak creek . so was gabby giffords . she was at a supermarket , listening to the concerns of her constituents . they were exactly where they were supposed to be . they were also exercising their rights -- to assemble peaceably ; to worship freely and safely . they were exercising the rights of life and liberty , and the pursuit of happiness . so surely , we can reconcile those two things . surely , america does n't have to be divided between rural and urban , and democrat and republican when it comes to something like this .
second , technology will make it harder for israel to defend itself in the absence of a genuine peace . third , a new generation of arabs is reshaping the region . a just and lasting peace can no longer be forged with one or two arab leaders . going forward , millions of arab citizens have to see that peace is possible for that peace to be sustained .
as executive vice president for policy at the center of -- at the center for american progress , melody directed a network of policy experts dedicated to finding solutions for struggling middle-class families . she also served as chief counsel to the great senator ted kennedy on the state -- senate judiciary committee , working on issues ranging from crime to immigration to bankruptcy , and fighting tirelessly to protect civil rights , women ’ s rights , and religious freedom . melody ’ s brilliant legal mind and her long experience working to secure the liberties on which this nation was founded , as well as to secure the opportunities for those who ’ ve been left behind , make her a perfect fit for dpc director .
and he ordered american troops to tour the camp , so they could see the evil they were fighting against . then he invited congressmen and journalists to bear witness . and he ordered that photographs and films be made .
but to reduce the deficit , i believe we should go further . and that ’ s why i ’ m calling on congress to reform our individual tax code so that it is fair and simple -- so that the amount of taxes you pay isn ’ t determined by what kind of accountant you can afford .
while our work together is far from over , today we can see what change looks like . it 's the native american-owned small business that 's opening its doors , or a worker helping a school renovate . it ’ s new roads and houses . it ’ s wind turbines going up on tribal lands , and crime going down in tribal communities . that ’ s what change looks like .
there ’ s only one thing we can be sure of , and that is the love that we have -- for our children , for our families , for each other . the warmth of a small child ’ s embrace -- that is true . the memories we have of them , the joy that they bring , the wonder we see through their eyes , that fierce and boundless love we feel for them , a love that takes us out of ourselves , and binds us to something larger -- we know that ’ s what matters . we know we ’ re always doing right when we ’ re taking care of them , when we ’ re teaching them well , when we ’ re showing acts of kindness . we don ’ t go wrong when we do that .
because , after all , it ’ s our beloved city , too . boston may be your hometown , but we claim it , too . it ’ s one of america ’ s iconic cities . it ’ s one of the world ’ s great cities . and one of the reasons the world knows boston so well is that boston opens its heart to the world .
now , this is my first visit to the philippines as president , and i ’ m proud to be here as we mark the 70th anniversary of the battle of leyte gulf , when americans and filipinos fought together to liberate this nation during world war ii . all these years later , we continue to stand shoulder-to-shoulder to uphold peace and security in this region and around the world .
three hundred and eighty-five days after rosa parks refused to give up her seat , the boycott ended . black men and women and children re-boarded the buses of montgomery , newly desegregated , and sat in whatever seat happen to be open . and with that victory , the entire edifice of segregation , like the ancient walls of jericho , began to slowly come tumbling down .
consider that just a couple of weeks ago , apple rolled out a new mobile operating system . and within days , they found a glitch , so they fixed it . i don ’ t remember anybody suggesting apple should stop selling iphones or ipads -- or threatening to shut down the company if they didn ’ t . that ’ s not how we do things in america . we don ’ t actively root for failure . we get to work , we make things happen , we make them better , we keep going .
president obama : well , malaysia has a history of democracy that has to be preserved . and i have a very good relationship with prime minister najib and we are close partners and cooperating on a whole host of issues .
which brings me to my second piece of advice : never underestimate the power of your example . the very fact that you are graduating , let alone that more women now graduate from college than men , is only possible because earlier generations of women -- your mothers , your grandmothers , your aunts -- shattered the myth that you couldn ’ t or shouldn ’ t be where you are .
this morning , i received a thorough update on the situation from attorney general eric holder , who has been following it and been in communication with his team . i ’ ve already tasked the department of justice and the fbi to independently investigate the death of michael brown , along with local officials on the ground .
that 's the promise of america , the idea that we are responsible for ourselves , but that we also rise or fall as one nation , the fundamental belief that i am my brother 's keeper , i am my sister 's keeper .
this is your victory and i know you did n't do this just to win an election . and i know you did n't do it for me . you did it because you understand the enormity of the task that lies ahead .
we ’ re going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies that currently go to insurance and pharmaceutical companies ; set a new fee on insurance companies that stand to gain a lot of money and a lot of profits as millions of americans are able to buy insurance ; and we 're going to make sure that the wealthiest americans pay their fair share on medicare
now , the third thing that this legislation does is it brings down the cost of health care for families and businesses and the federal government . americans who are buying comparable coverage in the individual market would end up seeing their premiums go down 14 to 20 percent . americans who get their insurance through the workplace , cost savings could be as much as $ 3,000 less per employer than if we do nothing . now , think about that . that ’ s $ 3,000 your employer doesn ’ t have to pay , which means maybe she can afford to give you a raise .
slowing down and pausing for fellowship and prayer -- that 's what this breakfast is about . i think it 's fair to say washington moves a lot slower than nascar . certainly my agenda does sometimes . but still , it 's easier to get caught up in the rush of our lives , and in the political back-and-forth that can take over this city . we get sidetracked with distractions , large and small . we ca n't go 10 minutes without checking our smartphones -- and for my staff , that 's every 10 seconds . and so for 63 years , this prayer tradition has brought us together , giving us the opportunity to come together in humility before the almighty and to be reminded of what it is that we share as children of god .
to ensure that federal cyber policies enhance our security and our prosperity , my cybersecurity coordinator will be a member of the national security staff as well as the staff of my national economic council . to ensure that policies keep faith with our fundamental values , this office will also include an official with a portfolio specifically dedicated to safeguarding the privacy and civil liberties of the american people .
but what kept me going was the belief that with enough determination and effort and persistence and perseverance , change is always possible ; that we may not be able to help everybody , but if we help a few then that propels progress forward .
we ’ re going to do all of this by harnessing our most inexhaustible resource : american ingenuity and american imagination . that ’ s what we need to keep going . that ’ s what ’ s at stake right now . that ’ s the choice that we face . and that ’ s the choice that ’ s facing congress today . they can either vote to spend billions of dollars more in oil subsidies that keep us trapped in the past , or they can vote to end these taxpayer subsidies that aren ’ t needed to boost oil production so that we can invest in the future . it ’ s that simple .
thanks to our recovery plan , we will double this nation ’ s supply of renewable energy in the next three years . we have also made the largest investment in basic research funding in american history – an investment that will spur not only new discoveries in energy , but breakthroughs in medicine , science , and technology .
and you ’ re going to have to play the part . because what we also made the point of this past weekend is young people typically lead the pack with new ideas , with new initiatives , with new focus , with a new vision .
finally , it ’ s worth remembering that congress has , on a bipartisan basis , played a critical role in our current iran policy , helping to shape the sanctions regime that applied so much pressure on iran and ultimately forced them to the table . in the coming days and weeks , my administration will engage congress once again about how we can play -- how it can play a constructive oversight role . i ’ ll begin that effort by speaking to the leaders of the house and senate today .
put yourself in their shoes . look at the world through their eyes . it is not fair that a palestinian child can not grow up in a state of their own . living their entire lives with the presence of a foreign army that controls the movements not just of those young people but their parents , their grandparents , every single day . it ’ s not just when settler violence against palestinians goes unpunished . it ’ s not right to prevent palestinians from farming their lands ; or restricting a student ’ s ability to move around the west bank ; or displace palestinian families from their homes . neither occupation nor expulsion is the answer . just as israelis built a state in their homeland , palestinians have a right to be a free people in their own land .
question : hi , mr. president . i am an elected representative from malaysia . my question to you is , what is your view on the democracy in malaysia with the recent jailing of anwar ibrahim , the opposition leader , and the crackdown on opposition ? thank you .
the security council authorized all necessary measures to prevent a massacre . the arab league called for this effort ; arab nations joined a nato-led coalition that halted qaddafi ’ s forces in their tracks
as a next step , we 're opening this competition to entrepreneurs and academics so the best minds in america can help us develop the technologies to serve our vets , including those of you with multiple traumatic injuries . and we 're going to keep at this until we meet our commitment to cut those backlogs , slash those wait times , and deliver your benefits sooner . this is a priority and we are going to get it done .
and certainly for me , this is always a chance to reflect on my own faith journey . many times as president , i 've been reminded of a line of prayer that eleanor roosevelt was fond of . she said , `` keep us at tasks too hard for us that we may be driven to thee for strength . '' keep us at tasks too hard for us that we may be driven to thee for strength . i 've wondered at times if maybe god was answering that prayer a little too literally . but no matter the challenge , he has been there for all of us . he 's certainly strengthened me `` with the power through his spirit , '' as i 've sought his guidance not just in my own life but in the life of our nation .
after 10 years of war , and given the progress we ’ ve made , i felt it was important that the american people -- and our men and women in uniform -- know our plan to end this war responsibly .
this is the story of israel . this is the work that has brought the dreams of so many generations to life . and every step of the way , israel has built unbreakable bonds of friendship with my country , the united states of america .
and against this backdrop , what i said here four years ago remains true today : our military remains the most trusted institution in america . when others have shirked their responsibilities , our armed forces have met every mission we ’ ve given them . when others have been distracted by petty arguments , our men and women in uniform come together as one american team .
to achieve this , and to prevent economic collapse , we were forced to extend assistance to some of the very banks and financial institutions whose actions had helped precipitate the turmoil . we also took steps to prevent the rapid dissolution of the american auto industry -- which faced a crisis partly of its own making -- to prevent the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs during an already fragile , shaky time . these were not decisions that were popular or satisfying ; these were decisions that were necessary .
just days after 9/11 , congress authorized the use of force against al qaeda and those who harbored them -- an authorization that continues to this day . the vote in the senate was 98 to 0. the vote in the house was 420 to 1. for the first time in its history , the north atlantic treaty organization invoked article 5 -- the commitment that says an attack on one member nation is an attack on all . and the united nations security council endorsed the use of all necessary steps to respond to the 9/11 attacks . america , our allies , and the world were acting as one to destroy al qaeda 's terrorist network , and to protect our common security .
president obama , as you grappled here with all these national security challenges , i have two questions . one , back home we ’ ve learned that 40 military veterans died while they were waiting for health care , a very tragic situation . i know you don ’ t run the phoenix office of veterans affairs , but as commander-in-chief , what specifically will you pledge to fix that ?
you 're the reason a young immigrant who grew up here and went to school here and pledged allegiance to our flag will no longer be deported from the only country she 's ever called home ; why selfless soldiers wo n't be kicked out of the military because of who they are or who they love ; why thousands of families have finally been able to say to the loved ones who served us so bravely : `` welcome home . '' welcome home . you did that . you did that . you did that .
but he ’ s not stopping there . as a member of the national foster care youth and alumni policy council , he plans to use his law degree to make sure kids like him don ’ t fall through the cracks .
to stop disease that spreads across borders , we must strengthen our system of public health . we will continue the fight against hiv/aids , tuberculosis and malaria . we will focus on the health of mothers and of children . and we must come together to prevent , and detect , and fight every kind of biological danger -- whether it ’ s a pandemic like h1n1 , or a terrorist threat , or a treatable disease .
but we ’ ll never break the grip of the cartels and the gangs unless we also address the social and economic forces that fuel criminality . we need to reach at-risk youth before they turn to drugs and crime . so we ’ re joining with partners across the americas to expand community-based policing , strengthen juvenile justice systems , and invest in crime and drug prevention programs .
moses told the joshua generation ; do n't forget where you came from . i worry sometimes , that the joshua generation in its success forgets where it came from . thinks it does n't have to make as many sacrifices .
i agree , and i have a deeply held preference for peaceful solutions . over the last two years , my administration has tried diplomacy and sanctions , warning and negotiations -- but chemical weapons were still used by the assad regime .
but credit has stopped flowing the way it should . too many bad loans from the housing crisis have made their way onto the books of too many banks . with so much debt and so little confidence , these banks are now fearful of lending out any more money to households , to businesses , or to each other . when there is no lending , families can ’ t afford to buy homes or cars . so businesses are forced to make layoffs . our economy suffers even more , and credit dries up even further .
security for our citizens . trade and development that creates jobs , prosperity and a clean energy future . standing up for democracy and human rights . these are the partnerships that we can forge together -- here in the americas but also around the world . and if anyone doubts whether this region has the capacity to meet these challenges , they need to only remember what happened here in chile only a few months ago .
that sent a shout across oceans so that my grandfather began to imagine something different for his son . his son , who grew up herding goats in a small village in africa could suddenly set his sights a little higher and believe that maybe a black man in this world had a chance .
regardless of how we got here , though , the task before us now is greater than simply repairing the damage done to our operations or preventing more disclosures from taking place in the future . instead , we have to make some important decisions about how to protect ourselves and sustain our leadership in the world , while upholding the civil liberties and privacy protections that our ideals and our constitution require . we need to do so not only because it is right , but because the challenges posed by threats like terrorism and proliferation and cyber-attacks are not going away any time soon . they are going to continue to be a major problem . and for our intelligence community to be effective over the long haul , we must maintain the trust of the american people , and people around the world .
so today , alan is in his second year at the college of southern nevada . alan is studying to become a doctor . he hopes to join the air force . he ’ s working hard every single day to build a better life for himself and his family . and all he wants is the opportunity to do his part to build a better america .
above all , our freedom endures because of the men and women in uniform who defend it . as they come home , we must serve them as well as they ’ ve served us . that includes giving them the care and the benefits they have earned -- which is why we ’ ve increased annual va spending every year i ’ ve been president . and it means enlisting our veterans in the work of rebuilding our nation .
so i welcome the job . i want the responsibility . and i know that -- let 's just take an example . many questioned our efforts to help save gm and chrysler from collapse earlier this year . their feeling was these companies were driven to the brink by poor management decisions over a long period of time , and like any business they should be held accountable for those decisions . i agree that they should be held accountable . but i also recognize the historic significance and economic prominence of these companies in communities all across michigan and all across the country .
of course , there are some who differ with our approach . on the one hand , there are some who argue that the government should stand back and simply let these banks fail -- especially since in many cases it was their bad decisions that helped create the crisis in the first place . but whether we like it or not , history has shown repeatedly that when nations do not take early and aggressive action to get credit flowing again , they have crises that last years and years instead of months and months -- years of low growth , years of low job creation , years of low investment , all of which cost these nations far more than a course of bold , upfront action .
but it should be clear to those around qaddafi , and to every libyan , that history is not on qaddafi ’ s side . with the time and space that we have provided for the libyan people , they will be able to determine their own destiny , and that is how it should be
when invasion gave way to insurgency , our troops persevered , block by block , city by city , from baghdad to fallujah . as a driver in a transportation company , this soldier endured constant attacks but never waivered in his mission -- and we thank sergeant dan knabe . thank you , dan .
if you do decide to consult an attorney for legal advice , hold on . you will have to tell the fbi that you 've done so . think about that : you want to talk to a lawyer about whether or not your actions are going to be causing you to get into trouble , you 've got to tell the fbi that you 're consulting a lawyer . this is unheard of . there is no such requirement in any other area of the law . i see no reason why it 's justified here .
you know , every so often , throughout our history , a generation of americans bears the responsibility of seeing this country through difficult times and protecting the dream of its founding for posterity . this is a responsibility that 's fallen to our generation . meeting it will require steering our nation 's economy through a crisis unlike anything that we have seen in our time .
the public option -- the public option is only a means to that end -- and we should remain open to other ideas that accomplish our ultimate goal . and to my republican friends , i say that rather than making wild claims about a government takeover of health care , we should work together to address any legitimate concerns you may have
development that lifts up the lives and health of our people . trade and economic partnerships that reduce poverty and create opportunity . leadership in the world that defends our security , and advances human dignity , and protects our planet -- that 's what i believe india and america can do together . so with the rest of my time , i want to discuss how we can do it . because in big and diverse societies like ours , progress ultimately depends on something more basic , and that is how we see each other . and we know from experience what makes nations strong . and neha i think did a great job of describing the essence of what 's important here .
the qur ’ an teaches that whoever kills an innocent is as -- it is as if he has killed all mankind . and the holy qur ’ an also says whoever -- whoever saves a person , it is as if he has saved all mankind .
i ’ ve reviewed the treasury department watchdog ’ s report , and the misconduct that it uncovered is inexcusable . it ’ s inexcusable and americans are right to be angry about it , and i am angry about it . i will not tolerate this kind of behavior in any agency , but especially in the irs , given the power that it has and the reach that it has into all of our lives . and as i said earlier , it should not matter what political stripe you ’ re from ; the fact of the matter is , is that the irs has to operate with absolute integrity . the government generally has to conduct itself in a way that is true to the public trust . that ’ s especially true for the irs .
but it 's also true that your ultimate success as an industry is essential to the success of our democracy . it 's what makes this thing work . you know , thomas jefferson once said that if he had the choice between a government without newspapers , or newspapers without a government , he would not hesitate to choose the latter .
it doesn ’ t make us weaker when we guarantee basic security for the elderly or the sick or those who are actively looking for work . what makes us weaker is when fewer and fewer people can afford to buy the goods and services our businesses sell , or when entrepreneurs don ’ t have the financial security to take a chance and start a new business . what drags down our entire economy is when there ’ s an ever-widening chasm between the ultra-rich and everybody else .
on that last point , i ’ m going to exercise my power as president to declare this speech sufficient crown forum credits for any otherwise eligible student to graduate . that is my graduation gift to you . you have a special dispensation .
and this capability could also prove valuable in a crisis . for example , if a bomb goes off in one of our cities and law enforcement is racing to determine whether a network is poised to conduct additional attacks , time is of the essence .
now , we will disagree , sometimes fiercely , about how to get there . as it has for more than two centuries , progress will come in fits and starts . it 's not always a straight line . it 's not always a smooth path . by itself , the recognition that we have common hopes and dreams won ’ t end all the gridlock , or solve all our problems , or substitute for the painstaking work of building consensus , and making the difficult compromises needed to move this country forward . but that common bond is where we must begin .
but it 's worth it -- and it 's working the problem is we 're still not reaching enough kids , and we 're not reaching them in time . that has to change .
but though it is ted kennedy 's historic body of achievements we will remember , it is his giving heart that we will miss . it was the friend and colleague who was always the first to pick up the phone and say , `` i 'm sorry for your loss , '' or `` i hope you feel better , '' or `` what can i do to help ? '' it was the boss who was so adored by his staff that over five hundred spanning five decades showed up for his 75th birthday party .
muslim americans protect our communities as police officers and firefighters and first responders , and protect our nation by serving in uniform , and in our intelligence communities , and in homeland security . and in cemeteries across our country , including at arlington , muslim american heroes rest in peace having given their lives in defense of all of us .
important , too , is how this effort succeeded -- thanks to the leadership and contributions of many countries . the united states was proud to play a decisive role , especially in the early days , and then in a supporting capacity .
with that , let me introduce the next surgeon general of the united states , dr. regina benjamin . good morning . it is a great honor for me to join you at the new economic school . michelle and i are so pleased to be in moscow . and as somebody who was born in hawaii , i 'm glad to be here in july instead of january .
you can make that happen . you can choose that future . you can choose the path where we control more of our own energy . after 30 years of inaction , we raised fuel standards so that by the middle of the next decade , cars and trucks will go twice as far on a gallon of gas . we have doubled our use of renewable energy , and thousands of americans have jobs today building wind turbines and long-lasting batteries . in the last year alone , we cut oil imports by one million barrels a day , more than any administration in recent history . and today the united states of america is less dependent on foreign oil than at any time in the last two decades .
of course , luck had little to do with ted kennedy 's legislative success , and he knew that . a few years ago , his father-in-law told him that he and daniel webster just might be the two greatest senators of all time . without missing a beat , teddy replied , `` what did webster do ? ''
anyway , i figured it was time to correct that . plus , i know sometimes your name confuses folks . they don ’ t always understand what your mission is . one person who does understand is david letterman . a few months ago he thanked you for standing up to the companies that were trying to pitch a new weight-loss product -- “ caffeine-laced undergarments. ” i ’ m actually not making this up . you ruled that these products were “ not substantiated by scientific evidence. ” so , thank you for saving america from caffeine-laced undergarments . these companies owed consumers a refund .
it ’ s not always easy , i think , to speak out against what is wrong , even for good people so i want to close with the story of one more of the many rabbis who came to selma 50 years ago . a few days after david teitelbaum arrived to join the protests , he and a colleague were thrown in jail . and they spent a friday night in custody , singing adon olam to the tune of “ we shall overcome. ” and that in and of itself is a profound statement of faith and hope . but what ’ s wonderful is , is that out of respect many of their fellow protestors began wearing what they called “ freedom caps ” -- yarmulkes -- as they marched .
when it comes to high-speed internet , the lights are still off in one-third of our households . one out of every three households in america don ’ t have that same access . for millions of americans , the railway hasn ’ t showed up yet
thanks to principal washington for -- not just for the warm introduction , but for his enthusiasm and his energy and his leadership and his nice singing voice . thank you . to all the trustees , to the alumni , to the parents , grandparents , aunts , uncles , cousins -- everybody who ’ s been a part of this extraordinary place .
and i ’ m assuming that the emotions that we ’ ve all felt since newtown , the emotions that we ’ ve all felt since tucson and aurora and chicago -- the pain we share with these families and families all across the country who ’ ve lost a loved one to gun violence -- i ’ m assuming that 's not a temporary thing . i ’ m assuming our expressions of grief and our commitment to do something different to prevent these things from happening are not empty words .
standards like those in massachusetts , where 8th graders are -- we have a massachusetts contingent here . in massachusetts , 8th graders are now tying for first -- first in the whole world in science .
in short , we need our intelligence , homeland security and law enforcement systems -- and the people in them -- to be accountable and to work as intended : collecting , sharing , integrating , analyzing , and acting on intelligence as quickly and effectively as possible to save innocent lives -- not just most of the time , but all the time . that 's what the american people deserve .
outside the doors of this hall , the blocks and neighborhoods of this great city tell the story of a difficult decade . nine years ago , the destruction of the world trade center signaled a threat that respected no boundary of dignity or decency .
i know that eric holder is reviewing what happened down there , but i think it ’ s important for people to have some clear expectations here . traditionally , these are issues of state and local government , the criminal code . and law enforcement is traditionally done at the state and local levels , not at the federal levels .
and so given that is americas heritage , given that we share a border with mexico , given ties that run back generations , it is critical that the united states recognize the need to reform our immigration system -- because we are a nation of laws , but we 're also a nation of immigrants .
let me start off by thanking everybody at del sol high school for hosting us . go dragons ! let me especially thank your outstanding principal , lisa primas . there are all kinds of notable guests here , but i just want to mention a few . first of all , our outstanding secretary of the department of homeland security , janet napolitano , is here . our wonderful secretary of the interior , ken salazar . former secretary of labor , hilda solis . two of the outstanding members of the congressional delegation from nevada , steve horsford and dina titus . your own mayor , carolyn goodman .
so she did this for a year until her mom got better . and in that round table she told everyone that the reason she joined our campaign was so that she could help millions of other children in the country who want and need to help their parents too .
we know that the iranian government will not change its behavior overnight , but today ’ s vote demonstrates the growing costs that will come with iranian intransigence . and i want to be clear : these sanctions do not close the door on diplomacy . iran continues to have the opportunity to take a different and better path . i would like nothing more than to reach the day when the iranian government fulfills its international obligations -- a day when these sanctions are lifted , previous sanctions are lifted , and the iranian people can finally fulfill the greatness of the iranian nation .
i ’ ve seen good legislation die because -- well , i ’ ve seen that too -- i ’ ve seen good legislation die because good intentions weren ’ t enough , because they weren ’ t fortified with a political majority and political will .
we welcome their gorgeous son , one-year-old lucas , who ryan is beginning to teach a love for all things new england -- of course , the red sox and the bruins and the celtics and the pats .
what is certain -- what has always been certain -- is the ability to shape that destiny . that is what makes us different . that is what sets us apart . that is what makes us americans -- our ability at the end of the day to look past all of our differences and all of our disagreements and still forge a common future . that task is now in your hands , as is the answer to the question posed at this university half a century ago about whether a free society can still compete .
assalamualaikum dan salam sejahtera . [ peace be upon you and may god be with you . ] thank you for this wonderful welcome . thank you to the people of jakarta and thank you to the people of indonesia .
i grew up as the son of a single mom who struggled to put herself through school and make ends meet . she had marriages that fell apart ; even went on food stamps at one point to help us get by . but she didn ’ t quit . and she earned her degree , and made sure that through scholarships and hard work , my sister and i earned ours . she used to wake me up when we were living overseas -- wake me up before dawn to study my english lessons . and when i ’ d complain , she ’ d just look at me and say , “ this is no picnic for me either , buster . ”
that 's not what 's led us into chaos . it 's been a failure of strategy ; and it 's time that the strategy change . there is no military solution , mr. president , to the civil war that rages on in iraq ; and it 's time for us to redeploy so that a political solution becomes possible
what ’ s our excuse today for not voting ? how do we so casually discard the right for which so many fought ? how do we so fully give away our power , our voice , in shaping america ’ s future ? why are we pointing to somebody else when we could take the time just to go to the polling places ? we give away our power .
fifty years from bloody sunday , our march is not yet finished , but we ’ re getting closer . two hundred and thirty-nine years after this nation ’ s founding our union is not yet perfect , but we are getting closer . our job ’ s easier because somebody already got us through that first mile . somebody already got us over that bridge . when it feels the road is too hard , when the torch we ’ ve been passed feels too heavy , we will remember these early travelers , and draw strength from their example , and hold firmly the words of the prophet isaiah :
now , mining has a long and proud history in west virginia . for many families and communities , it ’ s not just a way to make a living ; it ’ s a way of life . and the jobs they do in these mines help bring heat and electricity to millions of americans .
anyway , as always , i want to close on a more serious note . i often joke about tensions between me and the press , but honestly , what they say does n't bother me . i understand we 've got an adversarial system . i 'm a mellow sort of guy .
and ultimately , that ’ s the most important lesson that the world learned right here in south africa . mandela once wrote , “ no one is born hating another person because of the color of his skin , or his background , or his religion . people must learn to hate , and if they can learn to hate , they can be taught to love , for love comes more naturally to the human heart than its opposite . ”
i can still remember him speaking at one of the first organizing meetings i attended on the south side . he stood as both a lighthouse and a crossroads -- unafraid to speak his mind on moral issues ranging from poverty and aids and abortion to the death penalty and nuclear war .
to the muslim world , we seek a new way forward , based on mutual interest and mutual respect . to those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict , or blame their society 's ills on the west -- know that your people will judge you on what you can build , not what you destroy . to those -- to those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent , know that you are on the wrong side of history ; but that we will extend a hand if you are willing to unclench your fist .
in the end , our financial system only works –- our market is only free –- when there are clear rules and basic safeguards that prevent abuse , that check excess , that ensure that it is more profitable to play by the rules than to game the system . and that ’ s what these reforms are designed to achieve -- no more , no less . because that ’ s how we will ensure that our economy works for consumers , that it works for investors , that it works for financial institutions -– that it works for all of us .
everybody pays , but the wealthier have borne a little more . this is not because we begrudge those who ’ ve done well -– we rightly celebrate their success . instead , it ’ s a basic reflection of our belief that those who ’ ve benefited most from our way of life can afford to give back a little bit more .
the impulse towards intolerance and violence may initially be focused on the west , but over time it can not be contained . the same impulses toward extremism are used to justify war between sunni and shia , between tribes and clans . it leads not to strength and prosperity but to chaos . in less than two years , we have seen largely peaceful protests bring more change to muslim-majority countries than a decade of violence . and extremists understand this . because they have nothing to offer to improve the lives of people , violence is their only way to stay relevant . they don ’ t build ; they only destroy .
just as jobs and businesses can now race across borders , so can new threats and new challenges . no single wall separates east and west . no one rival superpower is aligned against us .
i know that for many americans watching right now , the state of our economy is a concern that rises above all others . and rightly so . if you haven ’ t been personally affected by this recession , you probably know someone who has -- a friend ; a neighbor ; a member of your family .
i have never been more proud or more confident in you than i am today -- not just because this extraordinary success , but because it reminds us of who we are as a people and as a nation . you reminded us that when we americans set our mind to something , when we are focused and when we are working together , when we ’ re not worried about who ’ s getting the credit and when we stay true to our values , even if it takes years , there is nothing we can not do .
still , i know the debate over this law has been divisive . i respect the very real concerns that millions of americans have shared . and i know a lot of coverage through this health care debate has focused on what it means politically .
but make no mistake : we will fight this spill with everything we ’ ve got for as long as it takes . we will make bp pay for the damage their company has caused . and we will do whatever ’ s necessary to help the gulf coast and its people recover from this tragedy .
fifty years after the creation of nasa , our goal is no longer just a destination to reach . our goal is the capacity for people to work and learn and operate and live safely beyond the earth for extended periods of time , ultimately in ways that are more sustainable and even indefinite . and in fulfilling this task , we will not only extend humanity ’ s reach in space -- we will strengthen america ’ s leadership here on earth .
rather than have me end with my remarks i thought it was appropriate to have elie wiesel provide some reflection and some thought as he returns here so many years later to the place where his father died .
this is the moment when we must build on the wealth that opens [ sic ] markets have created , and share its benefits more equitably . trade has been a cornerstone of our growth and global development . but we will not be able to sustain this growth if it favors the few , and not the many . together -- together we must forge trade that truly rewards the work that creates wealth , with meaningful protections for our people and our planet . this is the moment for trade that is free and fair for all .
this is the central lesson not only of this crisis but of our history . it ’ s what i said when i spoke here two years ago . because ultimately , there is no dividing line between main street and wall street . we will rise or we will fall together as one nation . and that is why i urge all of you to join me . i urge all of you to join me , to join those who are seeking to pass these commonsense reforms . and for those of you in the financial industry , i urge you to join me not only because it is in the interest of your industry , but also because it ’ s in the interest of your country .
with a global middle class consuming more energy every day , this must now be an effort of all nations , not just some . for the grim alternative affects all nations -- more severe storms , more famine and floods , new waves of refugees , coastlines that vanish , oceans that rise . this is the future we must avert . this is the global threat of our time . and for the sake of future generations , our generation must move toward a global compact to confront a changing climate before it is too late . that is our job . that is our task . we have to get to work .
that 's why i 've proposed a more than 6 percent increase in funding for the education department . and this funding is tied to reforms that raise student achievement , inspire students to excel in math and science , and turn around failing schools which consign too many young people to a lesser future -- because in the 21st century there is no better anti-poverty program than a world-class education .
it also means that states in the region stop being ambivalent about these extremist groups . the truth is that we ’ ve had state actors who at times have thought that the way to advance their interests is , well , financing some of these groups as proxies is not such a bad strategy . and part of our message to the entire region is this should be a wake-up call to sunni , to shia -- to everybody -- that a group like isis is beyond the pale ; that they have no vision or ideology beyond violence and chaos and the slaughter of innocent people . and as a consequence , we ’ ve got to all join together -- even if we have differences on a range of political issues -- to make sure that they ’ re rooted out .
going forward , it ’ s not just your town that needs your courage and your love and your faith . america does , too . we need towns where if you don ’ t know what your kids are up to , then chances are your neighbors do too , and they 'll tell on those kids in a second . america needs towns that holds fundraisers to help folks pay the medical bills and then take the time to drop off a home-cooked meal , because they know a family is under stress . america needs communities where there ’ s always somebody to call if your car gets stuck or your house gets flooded . we need people who so love their neighbors as themselves that they ’ re willing to lay down their lives for them .
and i ’ m sure that given the problems with the website so far , they ’ re going to be looking to go after it even harder . and let 's admit it -- with the website not working as well as it needs to work , that makes a lot of supporters nervous because they know how it 's been subject to so much attack , the affordable care act generally
that ’ s what you ’ re doing up here in u.p . that ’ s what you ’ re doing here at northern michigan university . that ’ s what we ’ re all going to do together in the months and years to come .
america does not presume to know what is best for everyone , just as we would not presume to pick the outcome of a peaceful election . but i do have an unyielding belief that all people yearn for certain things : the ability to speak your mind and have a say in how you are governed ; confidence in the rule of law and the equal administration of justice ; government that is transparent and does n't steal from the people ; the freedom to live as you choose .
so those would be more broad-based . those aren ’ t what we ’ ll be announcing today . today ’ s will be building on what we ’ ve already done and continue to be narrowly focused but will exact some additional costs on the russians . but we are keeping in reserve additional steps that we could take should the situation escalate further .
remember most republicans have made a whole bunch of predictions about this law that haven ’ t come true . there are no “ death panels. ” costs haven ’ t skyrocketed ; they ’ re growing at the slowest rate in 50 years . the last three years since i signed the affordable care act into law are the three slowest rates of health spending growth on record .
we got a lot of folks in the house . we ’ ve got military police and medical personnel . we ’ ve got the green berets of the 5th special forces group . i think we ’ ve got a few air force here . oh -- well , we thought we did . there they go -- okay . come on . and , of course , the legendary screaming eagles . and although they ’ re not in the audience , i want to acknowledge the 160th special operations aviation regiment -- the night stalkers -- for their extraordinary service .
from the start , no one was naïve enough to believe that peace would be anything but a long journey . yeats once wrote “ peace comes dropping slow. ” but that doesn ’ t mean our efforts to forge a real and lasting peace should come dropping slow . this work is as urgent now as it has ever been , because there ’ s more to lose now than there has ever been .
the america we want for our kids -- a rising america where honest work is plentiful and communities are strong ; where prosperity is widely shared and opportunity for all lets us go as far as our dreams and toil will take us -- none of it is easy .
some of you may know , my grandmother worked as a banker for most of her life -- worked her way up , started as a secretary , ended up being a vice president of a bank . and i know from her , and i know from all the people that i ’ ve come in contact with , that the vast majority of bankers and financial service professionals , they want to do right by their customers . they want to have rules in place that don ’ t put them at a disadvantage for doing the right thing . and yet , republicans in congress are fighting as hard as they can to make sure that these rules aren ’ t enforced .
how can we fail them ? how can a nation that relies on its miners not do everything in its power to protect them ? how can we let anyone in this country put their lives at risk by simply showing up to work ; by simply pursuing the american dream ?
so we have a huge opportunity , at this moment , to bring manufacturing back . but we have to seize it . tonight , my message to business leaders is simple : ask yourselves what you can do to bring jobs back to your country , and your country will do everything we can to help you succeed .
in the end , bill richardson is a leader who shares my values , and he must -- and he will be measured his progress the same way i do . are we creating good jobs instead of losing them ? are incomes growing instead of shrinking ? i know bill will be an unyielding advocate for american business and american jobs at home and around the world . and i look forward to working with him in the years ahead .
thanks very much , everybody . good afternoon , everybody . i want to say a few words on a number of topics and take a few questions before the long labor day weekend .
they work hard , often in tough , low-paying jobs . they support their families . they worship at our churches . many of their kids are american-born or spent most of their lives here , and their hopes , dreams , and patriotism are just like ours .
so thank you . thanks for inspiring me . god bless you . god bless the united states . hello , fort campbell ! 101st airborne division -- air assault , hello ! general colt , thank you for that great introduction -- it was great because it was brief . more importantly , thank you for the extraordinary leadership that you ’ ve shown here at one of the largest army bases in america .
agreements among nations . strong institutions . support for human rights . investments in development . all these are vital ingredients in bringing about the evolution that president kennedy spoke about . and yet , i do not believe that we will have the will , the determination , the staying power , to complete this work without something more ; and that 's the continued expansion of our moral imagination -- an insistence that there 's something irreducible that we all share .
you know , the other day , a friend of mine , congressman earl blumenauer , handed me a magazine with a special issue titled , `` the crisis in american medicine . '' one article notes `` soaring charges . '' another warns about the `` volume of utilization of services . '' another asks if we can find a `` better way than fee-for-service for paying for medical care . '' it speaks to many of the challenges we face today . the thing is , this special issue was published by harper 's magazine in october of 1960 -- before i was born .
i believe reform should protect the middle class , promote economic growth , and build on the fiscal commission ’ s model of reducing tax expenditures so that there ’ s enough savings to both lower rates and lower the deficit . and as i called for in the state of the union , we should reform our corporate tax code as well , to make our businesses and our economy more competitive .
it is wrong that in the united states of america , a teacher or a nurse or a construction worker who earns $ 50,000 should pay higher tax rates than somebody pulling in $ 50 million .
steve holland . question : sir , thank you . how much blame for this do you put on president putin ? and will you use this incident now to push the europeans for stronger action ?
now , just as there was in teddy roosevelt ’ s time , there is a certain crowd in washington who , for the last few decades , have said , let ’ s respond to this economic challenge with the same old tune . “ the market will take care of everything , ” they tell us . if we just cut more regulations and cut more taxes -- especially for the wealthy -- our economy will grow stronger . sure , they say , there will be winners and losers . but if the winners do really well , then jobs and prosperity will eventually trickle down to everybody else . and , they argue , even if prosperity doesn ’ t trickle down , well , that ’ s the price of liberty .
day after day , they would burrow into the coal , the fruits of their labor , what so often we take for granted : the electricity that lights up a convention center ; that lights up our church or our home , our school , our office ; the energy that powers our country ; the energy that powers the world .
i want to welcome members of the diplomatic corps ; members of my administration ; and members of congress , including rush holt , john conyers , and andre carson , who is one of two muslim american members of congress , along with keith ellison . so welcome , all of you .
but we know that in the coming years , jobs requiring at least an associate degree are projected to grow twice as fast as jobs requiring no college experience . we will not fill those jobs -- or even keep those jobs here in america -- without the training offered by community colleges . that 's why i want to applaud governor granholm for the no worker left behind program . it 's providing up to two years ' worth of free tuition at community colleges and universities across the state . the rest of the country should learn from the effort .
separated by nearly 9 years , they are bound for all time , among the nearly 4,500 american patriots who gave all that they had to give . to their families , including the gold star families here tonight , know that we will never forget their sacrifice and that your loved ones live on in the soul of our nation , now and forever .
danny was elected to the u.s. senate when i was two years old . he had been elected to congress a couple of years before i was born . he would remain my senator until i left hawaii for college .
do people actually think that somehow us sending some additional arms into ukraine could potentially deter the russian army ? or are we more likely to deter them by applying the sort of international pressure , diplomatic pressure and economic pressure that we ’ re applying
luther : and we can count on fox news to terrify old white people with some nonsense ! '' sharia law is coming to cleveland . run for the damn hills ! `` y'all , it 's ridiculous .
this vast and diverse citizenry will not always agree on every issue -- nor should we . but i also know that we , as a country , can not sustain our leadership nor navigate the momentous challenges of our time if we allow ourselves to be split asunder by the same rancor and cynicism and partisanship that has in recent times poisoned our national discourse .
thank you . god bless you , and may god bless the united states of america . it is wonderful to be back at georgetown . we 've got a number of acknowledgements . first of all , i just want to thank president degioia for his outstanding leadership here , but also for his hospitality .
over time , the people of this nation waged a long and sometimes bloody struggle to expand and secure their freedom from the crown . propelled by the ideals of the enlightenment , they would ultimately forge an english bill of rights , and invest the power to govern in an elected parliament that ’ s gathered here today .
so let me start by being extremely clear : i am 100 percent committed to the mission of nasa and its future . because broadening our capabilities in space will continue to serve our society in ways that we can scarcely imagine . because exploration will once more inspire wonder in a new generation -- sparking passions and launching careers . and because , ultimately , if we fail to press forward in the pursuit of discovery , we are ceding our future and we are ceding that essential element of the american character .
like so many other immigrants , generations of muslims came to forge their future here . they became farmers and merchants , worked in mills and factories . they helped lay the railroads . they helped to build america . they founded the first islamic center in new york city in the 1890s . they built america ’ s first mosque on the prairie of north dakota . and perhaps the oldest surviving mosque in america -- still in use today -- is in cedar rapids , iowa .
we know the march is not yet over . we know the race is not yet won . we know that reaching that blessed destination where we are judged , all of us , by the content of our character requires admitting as much , facing up to the truth . “ we are capable of bearing a great burden , ” james baldwin once wrote , “ once we discover that the burden is reality and arrive where reality is . ”
president obama : go . luther : he crazy . president obama : luther , my anger translator , ladies and gentlemen . now that i got that off my chest . investigative journalism ; explanatory journalism ; journalism that exposes corruption and injustice and gives a voice to the different , the marginalized , the voiceless -- that 's power . it 's a privilege . it 's as important to america 's trajectory -- to our values , our ideals -- than anything that we could do in elected office .
that 's no way to prepare them for a 21st century economy . that 's why i 'm calling for us not only to expand effective after-school programs , but to rethink the school day to incorporate more time -– whether during the summer or through expanded-day programs for children who need it
our hearts are full of thanks for that good news , and our hearts are full of gratitude for those who saved others . we are grateful to daniel hernandez -- a volunteer in gabby ’ s office .
like the bus driver , but also like the passengers on the bus , we see the way things are -- children hungry in a land of plenty , entire neighborhoods ravaged by violence , families hobbled by job loss or illness -- and we make excuses for inaction , and we say to ourselves , that 's not my responsibility , there ’ s nothing i can do .
that 's what 's made a difference in our lives . and it 's going to make an even greater difference in your lives -- not just for your own success but for the success of the united states of america .
and so the fact that sometimes that ’ s unacknowledged adds to the frustration . and the fact that a lot of african american boys are painted with a broad brush and the excuse is given , well , there are these statistics out there that show that african american boys are more violent -- using that as an excuse to then see sons treated differently causes pain .
he wanted to call on senators and representatives to pass a civil rights bill -- the most sweeping since reconstruction . and most of his staff counseled him against it . they said it was hopeless ; that it would anger powerful southern democrats and committee chairmen ; that it risked derailing the rest of his domestic agenda . and one particularly bold aide said he did not believe a president should spend his time and power on lost causes , however worthy they might be . to which , it is said , president johnson replied , “ well , what the hell ’ s the presidency for ? ” 1 what the hell ’ s the presidency for if not to fight for causes you believe in ?
and just as we identify with the victims , it 's also important for us i think to remember that the perpetrators of such evil were human , as well , and that we have to guard against cruelty in ourselves . and i want to express particular thanks to chancellor merkel and the german people , because it 's not easy to look into the past in this way and acknowledge it and make something of it , make a determination that they will stand guard against acts like this happening again .
among you are members of that generation that saved the world from fascism . i was honored to stand with our world war ii vets at normandy last year for the anniversary of d-day . and this year , as we mark -- this year , as we mark the 65th anniversary of our victory in that war , we once again salute our veterans of the second world war .
laboring in obscurity , often unable to discuss their work even with family and friends , the men and women at the nsa know that if another 9/11 or massive cyber-attack occurs , they will be asked , by congress and the media , why they failed to connect the dots .
i 've said this before . even before this particular crisis , much of our growth for a decade or more had been fueled by unsustainable consumer debt and reckless financial speculation , while we ignored the fundamental challenges that hold the key to our economic prosperity .
let it be told to the future world ... that in the depth of winter , when nothing but hope and virtue could survive ... that the city and the country , alarmed at one common danger , came forth to meet [ it ] .
now , sal is a pretty humble guy . and so when he came to the white house he said , “ you know , i didn ’ t do anything special. ” he said he was just doing his job , that he didn ’ t do anything that his brothers wouldn ’ t have done for him .
this future will not be easy to reach . it will not come without setbacks , nor will it be quickly claimed . but the founding of the united nations itself is a testament to human progress . remember , in times that were far more trying than our own , our predecessors chose the hope of unity over the ease of division and made a promise to future generations that the dignity and equality of human beings would be our common cause .
thank you , america . god bless you . god bless these united states . alright . first of all , i want to thank gail and charlie who are on the scene doing work every time we have a disaster here in the united states of america . but obviously , the red cross is doing outstanding work internationally , so we want to thank them for their outstanding work .
meanwhile , the united states will continue our effort to build a cooperative relationship with china . all of our nations -- australia , the united states -- all of our nations have a profound interest in the rise of a peaceful and prosperous china . that 's why the united states welcomes it . we ’ ve seen that china can be a partner from reducing tensions on the korean peninsula to preventing proliferation . and we ’ ll seek more opportunities for cooperation with beijing , including greater communication between our militaries to promote understanding and avoid miscalculation . we will do this , even as we continue to speak candidly to beijing about the importance of upholding international norms and respecting the universal human rights of the chinese people .
the glaring exception to this time-tested approach is the detention center at guantanamo bay . the original premise for opening gtmo -- that detainees would not be able to challenge their detention -- was found unconstitutional five years ago . in the meantime , gtmo has become a symbol around the world for an america that flouts the rule of law . our allies won ’ t cooperate with us if they think a terrorist will end up at gtmo .
why wouldn ’ t you want to make it more difficult for a dangerous criminal to get his or her hands on a gun ? why wouldn ’ t you want to close the loophole that allows too many criminals to buy a gun without even the simplest of background checks ? why on earth wouldn ’ t you want to make it easier rather than harder for law enforcement to do their job
and when malia was born , i remember vividly the nurses who took care of michelle and our new baby . the doctor who delivered is actually one of our best friends , but she was there about 10 minutes . and the nurse was there the whole time tending to this new family of ours . that was a happy day . now , there was another day when our youngest daughter , sasha -- she was three months old -- was diagnosed with meningitis . and it was nurses who walked us through what was happening , and who , along with the doctors , helped make sure that sasha was all right and that her father did not have a breakdown .
in the coming months , let 's see where else we can make progress together . let 's make this a year of action . that 's what most americans want -- for all of us in this chamber to focus on their lives , their hopes , their aspirations . and what i believe unites the people of this nation , regardless of race or region or party , young or old , rich or poor , is the simple , profound belief in opportunity for all -- the notion that if you work hard and take responsibility , you can get ahead .
and today , i want to discuss an issue that relates to each of these challenges . it ought to concern every person , because it is a debasement of our common humanity . it ought to concern every community , because it tears at our social fabric . it ought to concern every business , because it distorts markets . it ought to concern every nation , because it endangers public health and fuels violence and organized crime . i ’ m talking about the injustice , the outrage , of human trafficking , which must be called by its true name -- modern slavery .
pass this jobs bill , and companies will get extra tax credits if they hire america ’ s veterans . we ask these men and women to leave their careers , leave their families , risk their lives to fight for our country . the last thing they should have to do is fight for a job when they come home .
of course , no matter how innovative our schools or how effective our teachers , america can not succeed unless our students take responsibility for their own education . that means showing up for school on time , paying attention in class , seeking out extra tutoring if it 's needed , staying out of trouble . to any student who 's watching , i say this : do n't even think about dropping out of school . do n't even think about it .
thank you . please be seated . to all the families who loved so deeply the miners we ’ ve lost ; to all who called them friends , worked alongside them in the mines , or knew them as neighbors , in montcoal and naoma , or whitesville , in the coal river valley and across west virginia -– let me begin by saying that we have been mourning with you throughout these difficult days . our hearts have been aching with you . we keep our thoughts with the survivors who are recovering and resting at the hospital and at the homes . we 're thankful for the rescue teams . but our hearts ache alongside you .
when i was in chicago , as i was campaigning , they ’ d look at my last name and they ’ d say , “ oh , there ’ s an o ’ bama from the homeland running on the south side , so he must be irish -- but i 've never heard the gaelic name , barack ” but it pays to be irish in chicago
now , as i indicated before , i ’ m happy to have a conversation about how we reduce our deficits further in a sensible way . although one thing i want to point out is that the american people are also concerned about how we grow our economy , how we put people back to work , how we make sure that we finance our workers getting properly trained and our schools are giving our kids the education we deserve . there ’ s a whole growth agenda which will reduce our deficits that ’ s important as well .
in america , it was an endeavor that inspired a nation to action . a president who asked his country to pray on d-day also asked its citizens to serve and sacrifice to make the invasion possible . on farms and in factories , millions of men and women worked three shifts a day , month after month , year after year . trucks and tanks came from plants in michigan and indiana , new york and illinois . bombers and fighter planes rolled off assembly lines in ohio and kansas , where my grandmother did her part as an inspector . shipyards on both coasts produced the largest fleet in history , including the landing craft from new orleans that eventually made it here to omaha .
his early rival and late friend , ted kennedy , used to joke about campaigning in west virginia . when his bus broke down , ted got hold of the highway patrol , who asked where he was . and he said , “ i ’ m on robert byrd highway. ” and the dispatcher said , “ which one ? ”
i want to thank all the tribal leaders who are here for making this year ’ s conference the most successful yet . i want to acknowledge outstanding members of my team that have helped pull this together , but , more importantly , day in and day out are thinking about what we can do to make sure that all the tribes that are represented have a voice here in washington .
and there are other steps we 're taking to rein in deficits . i 've proposed a fee on big banks to pay back taxpayers for the bailout . we 're reforming the way contracts are awarded , to save taxpayers billions of dollars . and while we extend middle-class tax cuts in this budget , we will not continue costly tax cuts for oil companies , investment fund managers , and those making over $ 250,000 a year . we just ca n't afford it .
i couldn ’ t probably repeat them in the cathedral . ( laughter . ) there ’ s a side of danny that -- well danny once told his son his service to this country had been for the children , or all the sons and daughters who deserved to grow up in a nation that never questioned their patriotism . this is my country , he said . many of us have fought hard for the right to say that . and , obviously , rick shinseki described what it meant for japanese americans , but my point is , is that when he referred to our sons and daughters he wasn ’ t just talking about japanese americans . he was talking about all of us . he was talking about those who serve today who might have been excluded in the past . he ’ s talking about me .
george bush and john mccain do n't have a strategy for success in iraq -- they have a strategy for staying in iraq . they said we could n't leave when violence was up , they say we ca n't leave when violence is down . they refuse to press the iraqis to make tough choices , and they label any timetable to redeploy our troops `` surrender , '' even though we would be turning iraq over to a sovereign iraqi government -- not to a terrorist enemy . theirs is an endless focus on tactics inside iraq , with no consideration of our strategy to face threats beyond iraq 's borders .
we see that in bombs that go off in kabul and karachi . we see it in attempts to blow up an airliner over detroit or an suv in times square , even as these failed attacks show that pressure on networks like al qaeda is forcing them to rely on terrorists with less time and space to train .
now , the good news is we can make meaningful progress on this issue while driving strong economic growth . i urge this congress to get together , pursue a bipartisan , market-based solution to climate change , like the one john mccain and joe lieberman worked on together a few years ago . but if congress won ’ t act soon to protect future generations , i will . i will direct my cabinet to come up with executive actions we can take , now and in the future , to reduce pollution , prepare our communities for the consequences of climate change , and speed the transition to more sustainable sources of energy .
and once you start juggling those classes and activities and that campus job , and you get caught up in your own dreams and your own anxieties and dating -- you may feel like you ’ ve got enough on your plate just dealing with your own life . it might be easier to turn the channel when the news disturbs you , to avert your eyes when you pass that homeless man on the street , to tell yourself that other people ’ s problems really aren ’ t your responsibility .
moreover , the insurance companies are n't starting over . they 're continuing to raise premiums and deny coverage as we speak . for us to start over now could simply lead to delay that could last for another decade , or even more . the american people , and the u.s. economy , just ca n't wait that long . so , no matter which approach you favor , i believe the united states congress owes the american people a final vote on health care reform .
we vote in free elections . we work and we build and we innovate . we lift up the least among us . we reach for heights previous generations could not even imagine . we respect human rights and human dignity , and it is recorded in our constitutions .
'' and everybody needs to remember that during the course of this debate as we move forward with these challenges , we all have responsibilities , we all have hard work ahead of us on this issue . we can ’ t paper over problems , and we ’ re not going to solve this if we ’ re always just trying to be politically correct .
throughout american history , intelligence has helped secure our country and our freedoms . in the civil war , union balloon reconnaissance tracked the size of confederate armies by counting the number of campfires . in world war ii , code-breakers gave us insights into japanese war plans , and when patton marched across europe , intercepted communications helped save the lives of his troops . after the war , the rise of the iron curtain and nuclear weapons only increased the need for sustained intelligence gathering . and so , in the early days of the cold war , president truman created the national security agency , or nsa , to give us insights into the soviet bloc , and provide our leaders with information they needed to confront aggression and avert catastrophe .
we must chart a more centered course . like generations before , we must embrace america ’ s singular role in the course of human events . but we must be as pragmatic as we are passionate ; as strategic as we are resolute . when threatened , we must respond with force –- but when that force can be targeted , we need not deploy large armies overseas . when innocents are being slaughtered and global security endangered , we don ’ t have to choose between standing idly by or acting on our own . instead , we must rally international action , which we ’ re doing in libya , where we do not have a single soldier on the ground , but are supporting allies in protecting the libyan people and giving them the chance to determine their own destiny .
there 's an old turkish proverb : `` you can not put out fire with flames . '' america knows this . turkey knows this . there 's some who must be met by force , they will not compromise . but force alone can not solve our problems , and it is no alternative to extremism . the future must belong to those who create , not those who destroy . that is the future we must work for , and we must work for it together .
and today , i 'm directing that the department of homeland security take additional steps , including : strengthening our international partnerships to improve aviation screening and security around the world ; greater use of the advanced explosive detection technologies that we already have , including imaging technology ; and working aggressively , in cooperation with the department of energy and our national labs , to develop and deploy the next generation of screening technologies .
true democracy demands that citizens can not be thrown in jail because of what they believe , and that businesses can be opened without paying a bribe . it depends on the freedom of citizens to speak their minds and assemble without fear , and on the rule of law and due process that guarantees the rights of all people .
this speaks to a central question of our global age -- whether we will solve our problems together , in a spirit of mutual interest and mutual respect , or whether we descend into the destructive rivalries of the past . when nations find common ground , not simply based on power , but on principle , then we can make enormous progress . and i stand before you today committed to investing american strength to working with all nations to address the problems we face in the 21st century .
we should have an open and honest discussion about this recovery plan in the days ahead , but i urge congress to move as quickly as possible on behalf of the american people . for every day we wait or point fingers or drag our feet , more americans will lose their jobs . more families will lose their savings . more dreams will be deferred and denied . and our nation will sink deeper into a crisis that , at some point , we may not be able to reverse .
and that ’ s what happened last wednesday , when a fire alarm sounded across a quiet texas evening . as we ’ ve heard , the call went out to volunteers -- not professionals -- people who just love to serve , people who want to help their neighbors . a call went out to farmers and car salesmen and welders and funeral home directors ; the city secretary and the mayor . it went out to folks who are tough enough and selfless enough to put in a full day ’ s work and then be ready for more .
finally , a strong middle class can only exist in an economy where everyone plays by the same rules , from wall street to main street . as infuriating as it was for all of us , we rescued our major banks from collapse , not only because a full-blown financial meltdown would have sent us into a second depression , but because we need a strong , healthy financial sector in this country .
they ’ re looking for work , and they have been for a while ; or they ’ re making do with fewer hours or fewer customers ; or they ’ re just trying to make ends meet .
number three , if people still can ’ t afford it we ’ re going to provide them some tax credits -- the biggest tax cut for small businesses and working families when it comes to health care in history .
and that 's the way he lived his life -- with curiosity , exploring our planet , seeking to make sense of it and explaining it to others . he went everywhere and he did everything . he raced cars and boats ; he traveled everywhere from the amazon to the arctic ; he plunged 8,000 feet below the sea , trekked 18,000 feet up into the himalayas , and experienced weightlessness in the upper reaches of our atmosphere -- all with one mission : to make it come alive for the rest of us .
that calendar may have once made sense , but today it puts us at a competitive disadvantage . our children -- listen to this -- our children spend over a month less in school than children in south korea -- every year .
audience : sí se puede ! sí se puede ! president obama : now is the time . i ’ m here because most americans agree that it ’ s time to fix a system that ’ s been broken for way too long . i ’ m here because business leaders , faith leaders , labor leaders , law enforcement , and leaders from both parties are coming together to say now is the time to find a better way to welcome the striving , hopeful immigrants who still see america as the land of opportunity . now is the time to do this so we can strengthen our economy and strengthen our country ’ s future .
we 're making progress in ending homelessness among our veterans . today , on any given night , there are about 20,000 fewer veterans on the streets than there were when we took office . but we 're not going to be satisfied until every veteran who has fought for america has a home in america . we will not stop .
as always , i also have to thank president clinton for being so understanding with the record-breaking number of countries visited by our secretary of state . as we ’ ve seen again in recent days , hillary clinton is a leader of grace and grit -- and i believe she will go down as one of the finest secretaries of state in american history . so we are grateful to her .
i am grateful to the house for passing such a bill last year . and this year -- this year , i am eager to help advance the bipartisan effort in the senate . i know there have been questions about whether we can afford such changes in a tough economy . i know that there are those who disagree with the overwhelming scientific evidence on climate change . but -- but -- here -- here 's the thing : even if you doubt the evidence , providing incentives for energy efficiency and clean energy are the right thing to do for our future because the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the nation that leads the global economy . and america must be that nation .
how to promote greater opportunity for the cuban people was also a major focus of my meeting with president castro , the first between leaders of our two nations in more than half a century . i told president castro in private what i ’ ve have said in public -- that our governments will continue to have differences and the united states will continue to stand firmly for universal values and human rights . at the same time , we agreed that we can continue to take steps forward that advance our mutual interests . we ’ ll continue to work toward reestablishing diplomatic relations , reopening embassies in havana and washington , and encouraging greater contacts and commerce and exchanges between our citizens .
but even when the days seemed darkest , we have seen humanity shine at its brightest . we 've seen first responders and national guardsmen who have dashed into danger , law enforcement officers who lived their oath to serve and to protect , and everyday americans who are opening their homes and their hearts to perfect strangers .
there could be no starker contrast between these two selfless men and their al qaeda captors . warren ’ s work benefited people across faiths . meanwhile , al qaeda boasted to the world that it held warren , citing his jewish faith . al qaeda held both men for years , even as warren ’ s health deteriorated . they deprived these men of precious , irreplaceable years with family who missed them terribly .
that ’ s how you ’ ve grown up . you see our diversity as a strength , not a weakness . and i believe those life experiences have fortified you , as earlier generations were fortified , to meet the tests of our time .
tonight , let ’ s declare that in the wealthiest nation on earth , no one who works full-time should have to live in poverty , and raise the federal minimum wage to $ 9.00 an hour . we should be able to get that done .
we 've inherited the progress of unjust laws that are now overturned . we take for granted the progress of a ballot being available to anybody who wants to take the time to actually vote . we enjoy the fruits of prejudice and bigotry being lifted -- slowly , sometimes in fits and starts , but irrevocably -- from human hearts . it 's that progress that made it possible for me to be here today ; for the good people of this country to elect an african american the 44th president of the united states of america .
in iran , we see where the path of a violent and unaccountable ideology leads . the iranian people have a remarkable and ancient history , and many iranians wish to enjoy peace and prosperity alongside their neighbors . but just as it restricts the rights of its own people , the iranian government continues to prop up a dictator in damascus and supports terrorist groups abroad . time and again , it has failed to take the opportunity to demonstrate that its nuclear program is peaceful , and to meet its obligations to the united nations .
president obama : okay . so i ’ ll make one last run at iran here . there ’ s a political framework , the outlines of which were established between iran and the p5+1 . in some cases , there was great specificity around , for example , the reductions that need to take place in the number of centrifuges in natanz , or the conversion of fordow into a facility that does not permit the potential production of weapons-grade uranium . and in other cases , there were -- there was language of intent , but the details matter . and how those details are interpreted are going to be subject to negotiation .
if you 're an american who wants to do something to prevent more families from knowing the immeasurable anguish that these families here have known , then we have to act . now is the time to get engaged . now is the time to get involved . now is the time to push back on fear , and frustration , and misinformation . now is the time for everybody to make their voices heard from every state house to the corridors of congress .
one of the largest waves of immigration in our history took place little more than a century ago . at the time , jewish people were being driven out of eastern europe , often escaping to the sounds of gunfire and the light from their villages burning to the ground . the journey could take months , as families crossed rivers in the dead of night , traveled miles by foot , endured a rough and dangerous passage over the north atlantic . once here , many made their homes in a teeming and bustling lower manhattan .
this morning i met with members of my transition economic advisory board , who are standing behind me , alongside my vice president-elect , joe biden . they will help to guide the work of my transition team , working with rahm emanuel , my chief of staff , in developing a strong set of policies to respond to this crisis . we discussed in the earlier meeting several of the most immediate challenges facing our economy and key priorities on which to focus on in the days and weeks ahead .
thank you very much . hello , everybody ! thank you . thank you . thank you , everybody . all right , everybody go ahead and have a seat . how is everybody doing today ? how about tim spicer ? i am here with students at wakefield high school in arlington , virginia . and we 've got students tuning in from all across america , from kindergarten through 12th grade . and i am just so glad that all could join us today . and i want to thank wakefield for being such an outstanding host . give yourselves a big round of applause .
“ it is amazing , ” rebekah wrote , “ what you can bounce back from when you have to…we are a strong , tight-knit family who has made it through some very , very hard times. ” we are a strong , tight-knit family who has made it through some very , very hard times .
but instead of threatening to kick them out of the g-8 , we need to work with russia to take u.s. and russian ballistic missiles off hair- trigger alert ; to dramatically reduce the stockpiles of our nuclear weapons and material ; to seek a global ban on the production of fissile material for weapons ; and to expand the u.s.-russian ban on intermediate-range missiles so that the agreement is global .
thank you very much , mr. president . mr. president , on thursdays senator durbin and i hold a constituent coffee so we can hear from the folks back home . a young man came a few months ago who was about 25 , 26 years old . he had been in iraq for a year -- the first -- he had been back from iraq for a year . the first six months of that year had been spent in a coma . an explosion had shattered his face , blinded him in both eyes , has left him without the use of one arm .
now , this is what i mean when i say that we need to focus on the future . i recognize that many still have a strong desire to focus on the past . when it comes to actions of the last eight years , passions are high . some americans are angry ; others want to re-fight debates that have been settled , in some cases debates that they have lost . i know that these debates lead directly , in some cases , to a call for a fuller accounting , perhaps through an independent commission .
more particularly , it came down to the men who landed here -- those who now rest in this place for eternity , and those who are with us here today . perhaps more than any other reason , you , the veterans of that landing , are why we still remember what happened on d-day . you 're why we keep coming back .
during this past decade , profligate spending in washington , tax cuts for multi-millionaires and billionaires , the cost of two wars , and the recession turned a record surplus into a yawning deficit , and that left us with a big pile of ious . if we don ’ t act , that burden will ultimately fall on our children ’ s shoulders . if we don ’ t act , the growing debt will eventually crowd out everything else , preventing us from investing in things like education , or sustaining programs like medicare .
thank you , everybody , for being here . as we all know , our country has endured the deepest recession we 've faced in generations . and much of the turmoil was caused by irresponsibility on the part of banks and financial institutions . firms took reckless risks in pursuit of short-term profits and soaring bonuses , triggering a financial crisis that nearly pulled the economy into a second great depression .
and our approach to egypt reflects a larger point : the united states will at times work with governments that do not meet , at least in our view , the highest international expectations , but who work with us on our core interests . nevertheless , we will not stop asserting principles that are consistent with our ideals , whether that means opposing the use of violence as a means of suppressing dissent , or supporting the principles embodied in the universal declaration of human rights .
`` as you know so well , the passage of time never really heals the tragic memory of such a great loss , but we carry on , because we have to , because our loved one would want us to , and because there is still light to guide us in the world from the love they gave us . ''
we ’ ll put more americans to work repairing crumbling roads and bridges . we ’ ll make sure this is fully paid for , attract private investment , and pick projects based [ on ] what ’ s best for the economy , not politicians .
to the entire brigade of midshipmen -- you embody the highest virtues of this venerable institution . and yet , i know that some of you at times have enjoyed yourselves at other local institutions like mcgarvey ’ s and armadillo ’ s . but today is a day of celebration -- and also forgiveness . and so , in keeping with tradition , i declare all midshipmen on restriction for minor conduct offenses are hereby absolved . as always , admiral miller gets to decide what ’ s “ minor. ” some of these guys are laughing a little nervously about that .
we know that on average over the last decade , each year , premiums in that individual market would go up an average of 15 percent a year . i know that because when we were talking about health care reform , one of the complaints was : i bought health care in the individual market and i just got a notice from the insurer , they dropped me after i had an illness ; or my premium skyrocketed by 20 or 30 percent , why aren ’ t we doing something about this ?
the concern is that if we do not re-start lending in this country , our recovery will be choked off before it even begins . you see , the flow of credit is the lifeblood of our economy . the ability to get a loan is how you finance the purchase of everything from a home to a car to a college education ; how stores stock their shelves , farms buy equipment , and businesses make payroll .
we gather here to celebrate them . we gather here to honor the courage of ordinary americans willing to endure billy clubs and the chastening rod ; tear gas and the trampling hoof ; men and women who despite the gush of blood and splintered bone would stay true to their north star and keep marching towards justice .
the other problem that has received a lot of attention concerns americans who have received letters from their insurers that they may be losing the plans they bought in the old individual market , often because they no longer meet the law ’ s requirements to cover basic benefits like prescription drugs or doctors ’ visits .
a couple of other acknowledgments i want to make . we ’ ve got congresswoman sheila jackson lee from texas visiting us , a big supporter of the space program . my director , office of science and technology policy -- in other words my chief science advisor -- john holdren is here . and most of all i want to acknowledge your congresswoman suzanne kosmas , because every time i meet with her , including the flight down here , she reminds me of how important our nasa programs are and how important this facility is . and she is fighting for every single one of you and for her district and for the jobs in her district . and you should know that you ’ ve got a great champion in congresswoman kosmas . please give her a big round of applause .
and i will dwell in the house of the lord forever.1 ray , would you please join me on stage for the reading of the citation ? military aide : the president of the united states of america , authorized by act of congress , march 3 , 1863 , has awarded in the name of congress the medal of honor to chaplain emil j. kapaun , united states army , for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the all of duty .
so we 're not going to do that -- which is why i think that part of what i hope over the next couple of days we see is a recognition that there is a way to go ahead and get what it is that you 've been fighting for . these guys have been fighting for spending cuts . they can get some very meaningful spending cuts . this would amount to $ 2 trillion -- $ 2 trillion -- in spending cuts over the last couple of years . and in exchange , they 're getting a little over a trillion dollars in revenue . and that meets the pledge that i made during the campaign , which was $ 2 to $ 2.50 of spending cuts for every revenue increase . and that 's an approach that i think most americans think is appropriate .
our campaign was not hatched in the halls of washington . it began in the backyards of des moines and the living rooms of concord and the front porches of charleston . it was built by working men and women who dug into what little savings they had to give 5 dollars and 10 dollars and 20 dollars to the cause .
thank you . god bless you . and may god bless the united states of america . thank you . good afternoon . today i accepted general stanley mcchrystal 's resignation as commander of the international security assistance force in afghanistan . i did so with considerable regret , but also with certainty that it is the right thing for our mission in afghanistan , for our military , and for our country .
today , we are seeing the struggle for these rights unfold across the middle east and north africa . we ’ ve seen a revolution born out of a yearning for basic human dignity in tunisia . we ’ ve seen peaceful protestors pour into tahrir square -- men and women , young and old , christian and muslim . we ’ ve seen the people of libya take a courageous stand against a regime determined to brutalize its own citizens . across the region , we ’ ve seen young people rise up -- a new generation demanding the right to determine their own future .
now , this effort will take time . it will require focus . but we will succeed . and tonight , i call on this congress to show the world that we are united in this mission by passing a resolution to authorize the use of force against isil . we need that authority .
so new manufacturing plants are opening over the next few years . and a modest $ 2 billion investment in competitive grants for companies to develop the next generation of batteries for these cars has jumpstarted a big new american industry . pretty soon , america will be home to 40 percent of global manufacturing capacity for these advanced batteries .
this may be the greatest lesson of this day , the strongest rebuke to those who attacked us , the highest tribute to those taken from us -- that such sense of purpose need not be a fleeting moment . it can be a lasting virtue .
this can be community college or a four-year school ; vocational training or an apprenticeship . but whatever the training may be , every american will need to get more than a high school diploma .
at the end of this year , america ’ s military operation in iraq will be over . we will have a normal relationship with a sovereign nation that is a member of the community of nations . that equal partnership will be strengthened by our support for iraq -- for its government and for its security forces , for its people and for their aspirations .
so with that , i ’ m going to take your questions , and i ’ m going to start with julie pace of ap . question : thank you , mr. president . the combination of the website problems and the concerns over the policy cancellations has sparked a lot of worry within your own party , and polls also show that you ’ re taking some hits with the public on both your overall job approval rating and also on factors like trust and honesty . do you feel as though the flawed health care rollout has led to a breach in the public trust and confidence in government ? and if so , how do you plan to resolve that ?
and tonight , we are reminded that ramadan is a celebration of a faith known for great diversity . and ramadan is a reminder that islam has always been a part of america . the first muslim ambassador to the united states , from tunisia , was hosted by president jefferson , who arranged a sunset dinner for his guest because it was ramadan -- making it the first known iftar at the white house , more than 200 years ago .
but we also know that with the march of technology over the last few decades , the competition for jobs and businesses has grown fierce . the globalization of our economy means that businesses can now open up a shop , employ workers and produce their goods wherever an internet connection exists . tasks that were once done by 1,000 workers can now be done by 100 or in some cases even 10. and the truth is , as countries like china and india and brazil grow and develop larger middle classes , it 's profitable for global companies to aggressively pursue these markets and , at times , to set up facilities in these countries .
that ’ s the power that comes from acting on our ideals . that ’ s what mandela understood . but it wasn ’ t just the giants of history who brought about this change . think of the many millions of acts of conscience that were part of that effort . think about how many voices were raised against injustice over the years -- in this country , in the united states , around the world . think of how many times ordinary people pushed against those walls of oppression and resistance , and the violence and the indignities that they suffered ; the quiet courage that they sustained . think of how many ripples of hope it took to build a wave that would eventually come crashing down like a mighty stream .
real breakthroughs on these two issues -- iran ’ s nuclear program , and israeli-palestinian peace -- would have a profound and positive impact on the entire middle east and north africa . but the current convulsions arising out of the arab spring remind us that a just and lasting peace can not be measured only by agreements between nations . it must also be measured by our ability to resolve conflict and promote justice within nations . and by that measure , it ’ s clear that all of us have a lot more work to do .
and as we move forward with respect for america 's tradition of a bipartisan national security policy and a commitment to national unity , we have to recall that when it comes to keeping our nation and our people safe , we are not republicans or democrats : we are americans . there 's no monopoly of power or wisdom in either party . together , as one nation , as one people , we can shape our times instead of being shaped by them . together , we will meet the challenges of the 21st century not with fear , but with hope .
today , i want to talk about this change -- the forces that are driving it and how we can respond in a way that advances our values and strengthens our security . now , already , we ’ ve done much to shift our foreign policy following a decade defined by two costly conflicts . after years of war in iraq , we ’ ve removed 100,000 american troops and ended our combat mission there . in afghanistan , we ’ ve broken the taliban ’ s momentum , and this july we will begin to bring our troops home and continue a transition to afghan lead . and after years of war against al qaeda and its affiliates , we have dealt al qaeda a huge blow by killing its leader , osama bin laden .
the big banks should increase access to refinancing opportunities to borrowers who haven ’ t yet benefited from historically low interest rates . and the big banks should recognize that precisely because these steps are in the interest of middle-class families and the broader economy , it will also be in the banks ’ own long-term financial interest . what will be good for consumers over the long term will be good for the banks .
hello , everybody ! i ’ m sorry , bagram , i can ’ t hear you . air assault ! it is great to be back . let me first of all thank the 101st airborne division band . where ’ s the band ? give them a big round of applause . thank you .
tonight , in the interest of transparency , i 'd like to share a couple . let 's see -- this provision is called the bay state of denial . it reads : `` this bill shall cover short-term memory loss related to the passage of massachusetts health care reform . '' so , good news , mitt , your condition is covered .
when you think about it , the journeys of the united states of america and brazil began in similar ways . our lands are rich with god ’ s creation , home to ancient and indigenous peoples . from overseas , the americas were discovered by men who sought a new world , and settled by pioneers who pushed westward , across vast frontiers . we became colonies claimed by distant crowns , but soon declared our independence . we then welcomed waves of immigrants to our shores , and eventually after a long struggle , we cleansed the stain of slavery from our land .
because i will never forget that the only reason that i ’ m standing here today is because somebody , somewhere stood up for me when it was risky . stood up when it was hard . stood up when it wasn ’ t popular . and because that somebody stood up , a few more stood up . and then a few thousand stood up . and then a few million stood up . and standing up , with courage and clear purpose , they somehow managed to change the world .
countries have to truly invest in the education and skills and job training that our extraordinary young people need . and by the way , that 's boys and girls , and men and women , because countries will not be truly successful if half their populations -- if their girls and their women are denied opportunity . and america will continue to forge new partnerships in entrepreneurship and innovation , and science and technology , so young people from morocco to malaysia can start new businesses and create more prosperity .
next , we can put americans to work today building the infrastructure of tomorrow . from -- from the first railroads to the interstate highway system , our nation has always been built to compete . there 's no reason europe or china should have the fastest trains , or the new factories that manufacture clean energy products .
and the impact of this policy won ’ t be felt overnight , but it will be real . the sequester will weaken america ’ s economic recovery . it will weaken our military readiness . and it will weaken the basic services that the american people depend on every single day .
we were attacked viciously on 9/11 . thousands of our fellow countrymen and women were killed . and this is the region where the perpetrators of that crime , al qaeda , still base their leadership .
and we are blessed by leaders in each chamber who not only do their jobs very well but who never lost sight of that larger mission . they didn ’ t play for the short term ; they didn ’ t play to the polls or to politics : one of the best speakers the house of representatives has ever had , speaker nancy pelosi .
so what do we do ? as i found out after a year in the white house , changing this type of politics is not easy . and part of what civility requires is that we recall the simple lesson most of us learned from our parents : treat others as you would like to be treated , with courtesy and respect . but civility in this age also requires something more than just asking if we can ’ t just all get along .
and here ’ s how . states like california are setting up new , online marketplaces where , beginning on october 1st of this year , you can comparison shop an array of private health insurance plans side-by-side , just like you were going online to compare cars or airline tickets . and that means insurance companies will actually have to compete with each other for your business . and that means new choices .
with our economy in distress , we can not hesitate and we can not delay . our families can ’ t afford to keep on waiting and hoping for a solution . they can ’ t afford to watch another month of unpaid bills pile up , another semester of tuition slip out of reach , another month where , instead of saving for retirement , they ’ re dipping into their savings just to get by .
as president , i ’ ve continued to make historic investments to keep our armed forces strong . and guided by our new defense strategy , we will maintain our military superiority . it will be second to none as long as i am president and well into the future . we ’ ve got the best-trained , best-led , best-equipped military in history . and as commander-in-chief i am going to keep it that way .
and obviously , a lot of republicans had that fear , but democrats had that fear , too . and so they caved to the pressure , and they started looking for an excuse -- any excuse -- to vote `` no . ''
and that ’ s where these good folks come in . we are currently at the national cybersecurity communications integration center -- also known as nccic . i just got a tour and a briefing . i want to thank everybody here , not just from dhs but from across government and the private sector , because , again , this is a shared responsibility .
i want to thank marla weston , the ceo of the american nurses association . and i also want to acknowledge the presence here of dr. mary wakefield , who is our -- for those of you who are not familiar , she is the administrator of hrsa and our highest-ranking nurse in the administration -- and does absolutely great work .
now , i realize that a lot of the new members of congress and i don ’ t see eye-to-eye on many issues . but we were each elected by some of the same americans for some of the same reasons . yes , many want government to start living within its means . and many are fed up with a system in which the deck seems stacked against middle-class americans in favor of the wealthiest few . but do you know what people are fed up with most of all ?
in the end , our system only works -- our markets are only free -- when there are basic safeguards that prevent abuse , that check excesses , that ensure that it is more profitable to play by the rules than to game the system . and that is what the reforms we ’ ve been proposing are designed to achieve -- no more , no less . and because that is how we will ensure that our economy works for consumers , that it works for investors , and that it works for financial institutions -- in other words , that it works for all of us -- that ’ s why we ’ re working so hard to get this stuff passed .
our economy is stronger when we harness the talents and ingenuity of striving , hopeful immigrants . and right now , leaders from the business , labor , law enforcement , faith communities -- they all agree that the time has come to pass comprehensive immigration reform . now is the time to do it . now is the time to get it done . now is the time to get it done .
but this work is not complete -- we all know that . not in those countries where leaders enrich themselves with impunity ; not in communities where you can ’ t start a business , or go to school , or get a house without paying a bribe to somebody . these things have to change . and they have to chance not just because such corruption is immoral , but it ’ s also a matter of self-interest and economics . governments that respect the rights of their citizens and abide by the rule of law do better , grow faster , draw more investment than those who don ’ t . that ’ s just a fact .
thank you for your devotion to exercising our liberty , and to telling our american story . god bless you . god bless the united states of america . hello , oregon ! well , who arranged this day ? every time i come to oregon this is what it looks like . yeah ! it never rains in oregon , does it ?
now , the first step in building a new foundation that allows us to move forward has been to address the costs and risks that have made our economy less competitive -- outdated regulations , crushing health care costs , and a growing debt .
so my message is simple . it is time to stop rewarding businesses that ship jobs overseas , and start rewarding companies that create jobs right here in america . send me these tax reforms , and i will sign them right away .
i do want to end tonight on a slightly more serious note -- whoever takes the oath of office next january will face some great challenges , but he will also inherit traditions that make us greater than the challenges we face . and one of those traditions is represented here tonight : a free press that is n't afraid to ask questions , to examine and to criticize . and in service of that mission , all of you make sacrifices .
it 's paid for by the palestinian boy in gaza who has no clean water and no country to call his own . these are all god 's children . and after all the politics and all the posturing , this is about the right of every human being to live with dignity and security .
so with our partners from colombia to mexico and new regional initiatives in central america and the caribbean , we ’ re confronting this challenge , together , from every direction . we ’ ve increased our support -- the equipment , training and technologies -- that security forces , border security and police need to keep communities safe . we ’ re improving coordination and sharing more information so that those who traffic in drugs and in human beings have fewer places to hide . and we ’ re putting unprecedented pressure on cartel finances , including in the united states .
so they want us to get our books in order in a balanced way , where everybody pulls their weight , everyone does their part that 's what i want as well . that 's what i 've proposed . and we can get it done , but we 're going to have to make sure that people are looking at this in a responsible way rather than just through the lens of politics .
we know what it will take for america to win the future . we need to out-innovate , we need to out-educate , we need to out-build our competitors . we need an economy that 's based not on what we consume and borrow from other nations , but what we make and what we sell around the world . we need to make america the best place on earth to do business .
as commander-in-chief , ensuring the success of this strategy has been one of my highest national security priorities . last year , i announced the end to our combat mission in iraq . and to date , we ’ ve removed more than 100,000 troops . iraqis have taken full responsibility for their country ’ s security .
tomorrow , i ’ ll also visit the port of jacksonville , florida to offer new ideas for doing what america has always done best , which is building things . pat and i were talking before i came -- backstage -- pat quinn -- he was talking about how i came over the don moffitt bridge . but we ’ ve got work to do all across the country . we ’ ve got ports that aren ’ t ready for the new supertankers that are going to begin passing through the new panama canal in two years ’ time . if we don ’ t get that done , those tankers are going to go someplace else . we ’ ve got more than 100,000 bridges that are old enough to qualify for medicare .
so don ’ t accept somebody else ’ s construction of the way things ought to be . it ’ s up to you to right wrongs . it ’ s up to you to point out injustice . it ’ s up to you to hold the system accountable and sometimes upend it entirely . it ’ s up to you to stand up and to be heard , to write and to lobby , to march , to organize , to vote . don ’ t be content to just sit back and watch .
now , graduates , i am humbled to stand here with all of you as an honorary morehouse man . i finally made it . and as i do , i ’ m mindful of an old saying : “ you can always tell a morehouse man -- but you can ’ t tell him much. ” and that makes my task a little more difficult , i suppose . but i think it also reflects the sense of pride that ’ s always been part of this school ’ s tradition .
so if you look at syria , for example , our interest is in helping the syrian people , but nobody suggests that us being involved in a land war in syria would necessarily accomplish this goal .
bobby scott -- same thing . some of the cuts we 've proposed , bobby might not think are perfect , but he knows that we 've got to make some tough decisions . he just wants to make sure that you are n't the ones who are adversely impacted and that we 're sharing the sacrifice in bringing down our deficit ; we 're not just dumping it on a few people and we 're not doing it in a dumb way .
hand in hand , that is what development and democracy are about -- the notion that certain values are universal . prosperity without freedom is just another form of poverty . because there are aspirations that human beings share -- the liberty of knowing that your leader is accountable to you , and that you won ’ t be locked up for disagreeing with them ; the opportunity to get an education and to be able to work with dignity ; the freedom to practice your faith without fear or restriction . those are universal values that must be observed everywhere .
the president : no . and i ’ ve been very clear about this . this is the united states of america , the greatest country on earth , the world ’ s economic superpower . and the idea that we lurch from crisis to crisis , and every six months , or every nine months , that we threaten not to pay our bills on stuff we ’ ve already bought , and default , and ruin the full faith and credit of the united states of america -- that ’ s not how you run a great country .
finally , if we are serious about economic growth , it is time to heed the call of business leaders , labor leaders , faith leaders , and law enforcement -- and fix our broken immigration system . republicans and democrats in the senate have acted . i know that members of both parties in the house want to do the same . independent economists say immigration reform will grow our economy and shrink our deficits by almost $ 1 trillion in the next two decades . and for good reason : when people come here to fulfill their dreams -- to study , invent , and contribute to our culture -- they make our country a more attractive place for businesses to locate and create jobs for everyone . so let 's get immigration reform done this year .
we will not likely see the likes of nelson mandela again . so it falls to us as best we can to forward the example that he set : to make decisions guided not by hate , but by love ; to never discount the difference that one person can make ; to strive for a future that is worthy of his sacrifice .
it ’ s a rebuke to cynicism . it ’ s a rebuke to nihilism . and it inspires us to have faith that our future , like our past , will be shaped by the values that we share .
but understand , the attacks of the last two weeks are not simply an assault on america . they are also an assault on the very ideals upon which the united nations was founded -- the notion that people can resolve their differences peacefully ; that diplomacy can take the place of war ; that in an interdependent world , all of us have a stake in working towards greater opportunity and security for our citizens .
i understand those who protest that some countries have weapons that others do not . no single nation should pick and choose which nation holds nuclear weapons . and that 's why i strongly reaffirmed america 's commitment to seek a world in which no nations hold nuclear weapons . and any nation -- including iran -- should have the right to access peaceful nuclear power if it complies with its responsibilities under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . that commitment is at the core of the treaty , and it must be kept for all who fully abide by it . and i am hopeful that all countries in the region can share in this goal .
as president , i will end the war in iraq . we will have our troops home in sixteen months . i will close guantanamo . i will restore habeas corpus . i will finish the fight against al qaeda . and i will lead the world to combat the common threats of the 21st century -- nuclear weapons and terrorism ; climate change and poverty ; genocide and disease . and i will send once more a message to those yearning faces beyond our shores that says , “ you matter to us . your future is our future . and our moment is now . ”
second , i 'm directing that intelligence reports , especially those involving potential threats to the united states , be distributed more rapidly and more widely . we ca n't sit on information that could protect the american people .
the decision in particular to begin a phased redeployment , with the goal of redeploying all our combat forces by march 31st , 2008 , is the right step . it 's a measure the iraq study group spoke of , an idea i borrowed from them , an idea that , in a bill i introduced , now has more than 60 cosponsors from house and senate and from both sides of the aisle . they 've supported this plan since i announced a similar plan in january .
no , we will not go back to an economy weakened by outsourcing , bad debt , and phony financial profits . tonight , i want to speak about how we move forward , and lay out a blueprint for an economy that ’ s built to last -- an economy built on american manufacturing , american energy , skills for american workers , and a renewal of american values .
all told , this plan cuts $ 2 in spending for every dollar in new revenues . in addition to the $ 1 trillion in spending that we ’ ve already cut from the budget , our plan makes additional spending cuts that need to happen if we ’ re to solve this problem .
it 's exciting . marco rubio , rand paul , ted cruz , jeb bush , scott walker . who will finally get that red rose ? the winner gets a billion-dollar war chest . the runner up gets to be the bachelor on the next season of `` the bachelor . `` i mean , seriously , a billion dollars . from just two guys . is it just me , or does that feel a little excessive ? i mean , it 's almost insulting to the candidates . the koch brothers think they need to spend a billion dollars to get folks to like one of these people . it 's got to hurt their feelings a little bit .
of course , as i 've said before , with power comes responsibility . in this region , india can play a positive role in helping countries forge a better future , from burma to sri lanka , where today there 's new hope for democracy . with your experience in elections , you can help other countries with theirs . with your expertise in science and medicine , india can do more around the world to fight disease and develop new vaccines , and help us end the moral outrage of even a single child dying from a preventable disease . together , we can stand up against human trafficking and work to end the scourge of modern day slavery .
this crisis did not happen solely by some accident of history or normal turn of the business cycle . and we wo n't get out of it by simply waiting for a better day to come or relying on the worn-out dogmas of the past . we arrived at this point due to an era of profound irresponsibility that stretched from corporate board rooms to the halls of power in washington , d.c .
to those who oppose the steps i ’ m announcing today , let me say that i respect your passion and share your commitment to liberty and democracy . the question is how we uphold that commitment .
they doubted our will , but as americans we persevere . today , in afghanistan and beyond , we have gone on the offensive and struck major blows against al qaeda and its allies . we will do what is necessary to protect our country , and we honor all those who serve to keep us safe .
and so i ’ m here because i believe there does n't have to be a conflict in reconciling these realities . there doesn ’ t have to be a conflict between protecting our citizens and protecting our second amendment rights . i ’ ve got stacks of letters in my office from proud gun owners , whether they ’ re for sport , or protection , or collection , who tell me how deeply they cherish their rights , don ’ t want them infringed upon , but they still want us to do something to stop the epidemic of gun violence . and i appreciate every one of those letters . and i ’ ve learned from them .
third , this , in turn , fed into shortcomings in the watch-listing system which resulted in this person not being placed on the `` no fly '' list , thereby allowing him to board that plane in amsterdam for detroit .
and so the american people don ’ t need to be persuaded that this is , in fact , the right thing to do . i recognize that there are still concerns and questions that congress may have ; we ’ ve got concerns and questions about specific activities that are taking place in cuba , and human rights and reform . and there were two members of the cuban civil society that were in attendance at the meeting that i had yesterday who expressed much of what they have to go through on a day-to-day basis . they were supportive of our policy of engagement with cuba .
of course , if there ’ s one thing this new century has taught us , it ’ s that we can not separate our work here at home from challenges beyond our shores .
because they marched , america became more free and more fair -- not just for african americans , but for women and latinos , asians and native americans ; for catholics , jews , and muslims ; for gays , for americans with a disability . america changed for you and for me . and the entire world drew strength from that example , whether the young people who watched from the other side of an iron curtain and would eventually tear down that wall , or the young people inside south africa who would eventually end the scourge of apartheid .
shortly after his capture , chaplain kapaun , with complete disregard for his personal safety and unwavering resolve , bravely pushed aside an enemy soldier preparing to execute sergeant first class herbert a. miller . not only did chaplain kapaun ’ s gallantry save the life of sergeant miller , but also his unparalleled courage and leadership inspired all those present , including those who might have otherwise fled in panic to remain and fight the enemy until captured .
now it is up to us to serve these brave men and women as well as they serve us . every day , they meet their responsibilities to their families and their country . now it ’ s time to meet ours -- especially those of us who you sent to serve in washington . this can not be a country where division and discord stand in the way of our progress . this is a moment where we must come together to ensure that every american has the chance to work for a decent living , own their own home , send their kids to college , and secure a decent retirement .
as they do , we must learn their lessons . already this decade of war has caused many to question the nature of america ’ s engagement around the world . some would have america retreat from our responsibility as an anchor of global security , and embrace an isolation that ignores the very real threats that we face . others would have america over-extended , confronting every evil that can be found abroad .
i also just spoke with governor jay nixon of missouri . i expressed my concern over the violent turn that events have taken on the ground , and underscored that now is the time for all of us to reflect on what ’ s happened , and to find a way to come together going forward . he is going to be traveling to ferguson . he is a good man and a fine governor , and i ’ m confident that , working together , he is going to be able to communicate his desire to make sure that justice is done and his desire to make sure that public safety is maintained in an appropriate way .
we are grateful to the men who tackled the gunman as he stopped to reload . right over there . we are grateful for petite patricia maisch , who wrestled away the killer ’ s ammunition , and undoubtedly saved some lives . and we are grateful for the doctors and nurses and first responders who worked wonders to heal those who ’ d been hurt . we are grateful to them .
now , in a new collaboration on open government , our two countries are going to share our experience , identify what works , and develop the next generation of tools to empower citizens . and in another example of how american and indian partnership can address global challenges , we ’ re going to share these innovations with civil society groups and countries around the world . we ’ re going to show that democracy , more than any other form of government , delivers for the common man -- and woman .
so it is in this context that the united states has taken lethal , targeted action against al qaeda and its associated forces , including with remotely piloted aircraft commonly referred to as drones .
we also know that when students don ’ t walk away from their education , more of them walk the stage to get their diploma . when students are not allowed to drop out , they do better . so tonight , i am proposing that every state -- every state -- requires that all students stay in high school until they graduate or turn 18 .
now , some of these students don ’ t appreciate the end of school [ snow ] days . i know malia and sasha get really excited about school [ snow ] days . of course , in washington things shut down when there ’ s an inch of snow .
instead of training entrepreneurs to create jobs on our shores , we train our competition in sum , the system is broken . and everybody knows it . unfortunately , reform has been held hostage to political posturing and special-interest wrangling -- and to the pervasive sentiment in washington that tackling such a thorny and emotional issue is inherently bad politics .
so today , we can point to progress . more veterans are finding jobs ; the unemployment rate for veterans has come down . yes , it ’ s still too high , but it ’ s coming down . and now we ’ ve got to sustain that momentum . it ’ s one of the reasons i ’ ve proposed to congress a veterans jobs corps to put our veterans back to work protecting and rebuilding america . and today , i am again calling on congress : pass this veterans jobs corps and extend the tax credits for businesses that hire veterans so we can give these american heroes the jobs and opportunities that they deserve .
in this hall , we come from many places , but we share a common future . no longer do we have the luxury of indulging our differences to the exclusion of the work that we must do together . i have carried this message from london to ankara ; from port of spain to moscow ; from accra to cairo ; and it is what i will speak about today -- because the time has come for the world to move in a new direction . we must embrace a new era of engagement based on mutual interest and mutual respect , and our work must begin now .
as children of god , let 's stand up for the dignity and value of every woman , and man , and child , because we are all equal in his eyes , and work to send the scourge and the sin of modern-day slavery and human trafficking , and `` set the oppressed free . ''
on cuba , we are not in the business of regime change . we are in the business of making sure the cuban people have freedom and the ability to participate and shape their own destiny and their own lives , and supporting civil society .
nevertheless , this ideology persists , and in an age when ideas and images can travel the globe in an instant , our response to terrorism can ’ t depend on military or law enforcement alone . we need all elements of national power to win a battle of wills , a battle of ideas . so what i want to discuss here today is the components of such a comprehensive counterterrorism strategy .
this is the central lesson not only of this crisis but of our history . ultimately , there ’ s no dividing line between main street and wall street . we rise or fall together as one nation . so these reforms will help lift our economy and lead all of us to a stronger , more prosperous future .
so we 've already begun to work with congress to shape this comprehensive new regulatory framework -- and i expect a bill to arrive on my desk for my signature before the year is out
next month will mark the sixth anniversary of the war in iraq . by any measure , this has already been a long war . for the men and women of america ’ s armed forces – and for your families – this war has been one of the most extraordinary chapters of service in the history of our nation .
look at the statistics . in the last few decades , the average income of the top 1 percent has gone up by more than 250 percent to 1.2 million dollars per year . i ’ m not talking about millionaires , people who have a million dollars . i ’ m saying people who make a million dollars every single year . for the top one hundredth of 1 percent , the average income is now 27 million dollars per year . the typical ceo who used to earn about 30 times more than his or her worker now earns 110 times more . and yet , over the last decade the incomes of most americans have actually fallen by about 6 percent .
here in india , most people are under 35 years old . and india is on track to become the world 's most populous country . so young indians like you are n't just going to define the future of this nation , you 're going to shape the world . like young people everywhere , you want to get an education , and find a good job , and make your mark . and it 's not easy , but in our two countries , it 's possible .
all these things must be done in partnership . americans are ready to join with citizens and governments ; community organizations , religious leaders , and businesses in muslim communities around the world to help our people pursue a better life .
sylvia and her colleagues knew how hard it would be to do anything about a peace wall , but they reached out to the police , they reached out to the department of justice . they brought together people from across the communities . they knew it was going to be hard , but they tried anyway . and together , they all decided to build a gate to open that wall . and now , people can walk freely through the park and enjoy the sun -- when it comes out -- just like people do every day in parks all around the world .
we pay tribute to the service of a new generation -- young americans raised in a time of peace and plenty who saw their nation in its hour of need and said , `` i choose to serve '' ; `` i will do my part . '' and once more we grieve . for you and your families , no words can ease the ache of your heart . no deeds can fill the empty places in your homes . but on this day and all that follow , you may find solace in the memory of those you loved , and know that you have the unending support of the american people .
now , together as a community , you ’ ve embraced the motto of this school district : “ every child , every opportunity , every time. ” every time . every child , every opportunity , every time , because you believe , like i do , that every young person , every child -- regardless of what they look like , where they come from , how much money their parents have -- every child who walks through your schoolhouse doors deserves a quality education . no exceptions .
it was here that he was introduced to the writings of gandhi and thoreau , and the theory of civil disobedience . it was here that professors encouraged him to look past the world as it was and fight for the world as it should be .
so in summary , what you 've got is two programs that were originally authorized by congress , have been repeatedly authorized by congress , bipartisan majorities have approved on them , congress is continually briefed on how these are conducted . there are a whole range of safeguards involved , and federal judges are overseeing the entire program throughout . we 're also setting up -- we 've also set up an audit process , when i came into office , to make sure that we 're , after the fact , making absolutely certain that all the safeguards are being properly observed .
but there ’ s always been another thread running throughout our history -- a belief that we ’ re all connected , and that there are some things we can only do together , as a nation .
the president : sure . let me take the second one first . i ’ m very proud that in the first four years we had as diverse , if not more diverse , a white house and a cabinet than any in history . and i intend to continue that , because it turns out that when you look for the very best people , given the incredible diversity of this country , you ’ re going to end up with a diverse staff and a diverse team . and that very diversity helps to create more effective policymaking and better decision-making for me , because it brings different perspectives to the table .
agreement on chemical weapons should energize a larger diplomatic effort to reach a political settlement within syria . i do not believe that military action -- by those within syria , or by external powers -- can achieve a lasting peace . nor do i believe that america or any nation should determine who will lead syria ; that is for the syrian people to decide . nevertheless , a leader who slaughtered his citizens and gassed children to death can not regain the legitimacy to lead a badly fractured country . the notion that syria can somehow return to a pre-war status quo is a fantasy .
one of the things about discriminating against people or treating people differently is , by definition , that means that people will treat you differently , and you never know when you will find yourself in a situation in which you are a minority , where you are vulnerable , where you ’ re not being treated fairly .
the task that i assigned our forces -- to protect the libyan people from immediate danger , and to establish a no-fly zone -- carries with it a u.n. mandate and international support . it ’ s also what the libyan opposition asked us to do . if we tried to overthrow qaddafi by force , our coalition would splinter . we would likely have to put u.s. troops on the ground to accomplish that mission , or risk killing many civilians from the air . the dangers faced by our men and women in uniform would be far greater . so would the costs and our share of the responsibility for what comes next .
this tuesday was in many ways a day like any other . the sun rose ; the sun set ; the great work of our democracy carried on . but in a fundamental sense it was different . it was the first day in many of our lives -- certainly my own -- that the halls of the united states congress were not graced by the presence of daniel ken inouye .
but let me be clear . as a citizen , and as president , i believe that muslims have the same right to practice their religion as everyone else in this country . and that includes the right to build a place of worship and a community center on private property in lower manhattan , in accordance with local laws and ordinances . this is america . and our commitment to religious freedom must be unshakeable . the principle that people of all faiths are welcome in this country and that they will not be treated differently by their government is essential to who we are . the writ of the founders must endure .
question : mr. president , could you please react to the reports of secret government surveillance of phones and internet ? and can you also assure americans that the government -- your government does n't have some massive secret database of all their personal online information and activities ?
over the years , i ’ ve repeatedly made clear that we would take action within pakistan if we knew where bin laden was . that is what we ’ ve done . but it ’ s important to note that our counterterrorism cooperation with pakistan helped lead us to bin laden and the compound where he was hiding . indeed , bin laden had declared war against pakistan as well , and ordered attacks against the pakistani people .
four years ago , i was a washington outsider . four years later , i ’ m at this dinner . four years ago , i looked like this . today , i look like this . and four years from now , i will look like this . that ’ s not even funny .
but let ’ s remember that it was the arab league that appealed for action . it was the world ’ s most effective alliance , nato , that ’ s led a military coalition of nearly 20 nations .
all those things are happening because of you . and so , if you 've been feeling impatient -- and i understand that -- if -- if you 're feeling frustrated sometimes , that should n't be a reason to pull back . that 's a reason for us to get even more involved . because we know if we 've done this much over the last two years , imagine what we can do over the next six -- as long as we keep our focus on the future , as long as we keep working together .
it 's not just oil and natural gas production that 's booming ; we 're becoming a global leader in solar , too . every four minutes , another american home or business goes solar ; every panel pounded into place by a worker whose job ca n't be outsourced . let 's continue that progress with a smarter tax policy that stops giving $ 4 billion a year to fossil fuel industries that do n't need it , so that we can invest more in fuels of the future that do .
it isn ’ t just the new security efforts and social programs -- and i want to congratulate the mayor and the governor for the excellent work that they ’ re doing . but it ’ s also a change in attitudes . as one young resident said , “ people have to look at favelas not with pity , but as a source of presidents and lawyers and doctors , artists , [ and ] people with solutions . ”
where women are full participants in a country ’ s politics or economy , societies are more likely to succeed . and that ’ s why we support the participation of women in parliaments and peace processes , schools and the economy .
but of course , your victory that june day was only the beginning . for democracy is more than just elections . true democracy , real prosperity , lasting security -- these are neither simply given , nor imposed from the outside . they must be earned and built from within . and in that age-old contest of ideas -- between freedom and authoritarianism , between liberty and oppression , between solidarity and intolerance -- poland ’ s progress shows the enduring strength of the ideals that we cherish as a free people .
and it ’ s an honor to be back in mexico city -- one of the world ’ s great cities . es un placer estar entre amigos . and it ’ s fitting that we gather at this great museum , which celebrates mexico ’ s ancient civilizations and their achievements in arts and architecture , medicine and mathematics . in modern times , mexico ’ s blend of cultures and traditions found its expression in the murals of rivera and the paintings of frida , and the poetry of sor juana and the essays of octavio paz .
of course , raising standards alone will not make much of a difference unless we provide teachers and principals with the information they need to make sure students are prepared to meet those standards . and far too few states have data systems like the one in florida that keep track of a student 's education from childhood through college .
no one -- no single step can change overnight what lies in the hearts and minds of millions . no single step is going to erase years of history and propaganda . but progress with the palestinians is a powerful way to begin , while sidelining extremists who thrive on conflict and thrive on division . it would make a difference .
but this can ’ t be the work of government alone . as michelle has been saying , 1 percent of americans may be fighting our wars , but 100 percent of americans need to be supporting our men and women and their families in uniform . you guys shouldn ’ t be carrying the entire burden . that ’ s why michelle is challenging every sector of american society to support our military families -- not just now , with our nation at war , but at every stage of your lives .
here 's what i ask congress , though : do n't walk away from reform . not now . not when we are so close . let us find a way to come together and finish the job for the american people . let 's get it done . let 's get it done .
instead he said , let ’ s take those victories and broaden our mission to achieve not just civil and political equality but also economic justice ; let ’ s fight for a living wage and better schools and jobs for all who are willing to work .
i also want to congratulate the class of 2009 for all your accomplishments . and since -- [ audience member interrupts with pro-life slogans ] president obama : and since -- this is notre dame , i mean -- that 's ... all right . and since --
today is particularly special . since the end of the vietnam war , the medal of honor has been awarded nine times for conspicuous gallantry in an ongoing or recent conflict . sadly , our nation has been unable to present this decoration to the recipients themselves , because each gave his life -- his last full measure of devotion -- for our country . indeed , as president , i have presented the medal of honor three times -- and each time to the families of a fallen hero .
you ’ re going to have to make a choice about whether we ’ ll say we can ’ t afford to educate our young people and send them to college , or whether we continue to be a country that makes investments that are necessary to keep those young people competitive in this new century .
before i came here , i visited istiqlal mosque -- a place of worship that was still under construction when i lived in jakarta . and i admired its soaring minaret and its imposing dome and welcoming space . but its name and history also speak to what makes indonesia great . istiqlal means independence , and its construction was in part a testament to the nation ’ s struggle for freedom . moreover , this house of worship for many thousands of muslims was designed by a christian architect .
first , we will continue to uphold the inter-american democratic charter , which states that “ the peoples of the americas have a right to democracy. ” i believe our governments , together , have an obligation to uphold the universal freedoms and rights of all our citizens . i want to again commend president varela and panama for making civil society groups from across the region formal partners in this summit for the first time . i believe the voices of our citizens must be heard . and i believe going forward , civil society should be a permanent part of these summits .
okay . that ’ s good . so , young lady right here . question : mabuhay . president obama : mabuhay . question : mabuhay , mr. president . i 'm a city council member of davao city , the philippines . there are a handful -- or a there are a few elected officials , some are yseali fellows . i really would like to know what is your word of advice for a young , budding political leader , young legislator , elected official like me in a developing democracy like the philippines ? thank you .
let us remember that we can do these things not just because of wealth or power , but because of who we are : one nation , under god , indivisible , with liberty and justice for all .
today , i ’ m signing this reform bill into law on behalf of my mother , who argued with insurance companies even as she battled cancer in her final days . i ’ m signing it for ryan smith , who ’ s here today . he runs a small business with five employees . he ’ s trying to do the right thing , paying half the cost of coverage for his workers . this bill will help him afford that coverage .
today belongs to the people of egypt , and the american people are moved by these scenes in cairo and across egypt because of who we are as a people and the kind of world that we want our children to grow up in .
so with the rest of my time today , i ’ d like to talk about why the story i just told -- the story of indonesia since the days when i lived here -- is so important to the united states and to the world . i will focus on three areas that are closely related , and fundamental to human progress -- development , democracy and religious faith .
and so our message today , to them , is -- to the millions around the world -- we see you . we hear you . we insist on your dignity . and we share your belief that if just given the chance , you will forge a life equal to your talents and worthy of your dreams .
four years ago , i stood before you and told you my story of the brief union between a young man from kenya and a young woman from kansas who were n't well-off or well-known , but shared a belief that in america , their son could achieve whatever he put his mind to .
this time we want to reject the cynicism that tells us that these kids ca n't learn ; that those kids who do n't look like us are somebody else 's problem . the children of america are not `` those kids , '' -- they are our kids , and we will not let them fall behind in a 21st-century economy .
i also see in mexico ’ s youth an empowered generation because of technology . i think i see some of you tweeting right now -- what ’ s happening . and whether it ’ s harnessing social media to preserve indigenous languages , or speaking up for the future that you want , you ’ re making it clear that you want your voice heard .
that ’ s the story of nasa . and it ’ s a story that started a little more than half a century ago , far from the space coast , in a remote and desolate region of what is now called kazakhstan . because it was from there that the soviet union launched sputnik , the first artificial satellite to orbit the earth , which was little more than a few pieces of metal with a transmitter and a battery strapped to the top of a missile . but the world was stunned . americans were dumbfounded . the soviets , it was perceived , had taken the lead in a race for which we were not yet fully prepared .
pass this jobs bill , and companies will get a $ 4,000 tax credit if they hire anyone who has spent more than six months looking for a job . we have to do more to help the long-term unemployed in their search for work .
is it your opinion , mr. president , that this is pure posturing and it should be disregarded by your government and by you and your secretary of state ? and if so , could you help me understand to whom the supreme leader would be posturing ? because under my limited understanding of iranian politics , that 's not a job description usually applied to the supreme leader .
but meaningful achievement , lasting success -- it doesn ’ t happen in an instant . it ’ s not about luck , it ’ s not about a sudden stroke of genius . it ’ s not usually about talent . it ’ s usually about daily effort , the large choices and the small choices that you make that add up over time . it ’ s about the skills you build , and the knowledge you accumulate , and the energy you invest in every task , no matter how trivial or menial it may seem at the time .
so it 's fitting because we find ourselves at a crossroads as well -- all of us -- for we 've arrived at a moment where each nation and every citizen must choose at last how we respond to a world that has grown smaller and more connected than at any time in its existence .
so let me take this opportunity to outline what has been u.s. policy towards the middle east and north africa , and what will be my policy during the remainder of my presidency . the united states of america is prepared to use all elements of our power , including military force , to secure our core interests in the region .
the heart of this financial crisis is that too many banks and other financial institutions simply stopped lending money . in a climate of fear , banks were unable to replace their losses from some of those bad mortgages by raising new capital on their own , and they were unwilling to lend the money they did have because they were afraid that no one would pay it back . it 's for this reason that the last administration used what they called the troubled asset relief program , or tarp , to provide these banks with temporary financial assistance in order to get them lending again .
and because we bet on this country , suddenly foreign companies are , too . right now , more of honda ’ s cars are made in america than anyplace else on earth . airbus , the european aircraft company , they ’ re building new planes in alabama . and american companies like ford are replacing outsourcing with insourcing -- they ’ re bringing jobs back home .
i was proud to nominate marty as army chief of staff , and i realized he only assumed that position last month . marty , your tenure as chief may go down as one of the shortest in army history . but it ’ s your lifetime of accomplishment that brings us here today . and i thank you for your willingness to take on this new assignment , along with your wife deanie and your three children , all of whom have served in the army .
and if you live in an urban area and you 're worried about street crime , you 've got to understand what it might be like if you grew out on a ranch and your dad had been taking you hunting all your life . and we had a couple of sportsmen in our conversation today , and i thought one of them said something very important . he said , all my experiences with guns have been positive , but i realize that for others , all their experiences about guns have been negative . well , that 's a start , right ? if we start listening to each other , then we should be able to get something done that 's constructive . we should be able to get that done .
moreover , wars between nations have increasingly given way to wars within nations . the resurgence of ethnic or sectarian conflicts ; the growth of secessionist movements , insurgencies , and failed states -- all these things have increasingly trapped civilians in unending chaos . in today 's wars , many more civilians are killed than soldiers ; the seeds of future conflict are sown , economies are wrecked , civil societies torn asunder , refugees amassed , children scarred .
obviously , everybody is aware at this point that this is going to be a big and powerful storm . and all across the eastern seaboard , i think everybody is taking the appropriate preparations .
what has always united us , what has always driven our people , what drew my father to america ’ s shores -- is a set of ideals that speak to aspirations shared by all people : that we can live free from fear and free from want ; that we can speak our minds and assemble with whomever we choose and worship as we please
they are the courageous men and women serving in afghanistan even as we speak . they keep clear focus on their mission : to deny safe haven for terrorists who would attack our country , to break the back of the taliban insurgency , to build the afghans ’ capacity to defend themselves . they possess the steely resolve to see their mission through . they are made of the same strong stuff as the troops in this room , and i am absolutely confident that they will continue to succeed in the missions that we give them , in afghanistan and beyond .
already , the uncertainty around these cuts is having an effect . companies are starting to prepare for layoff notices . families are preparing to cut back on expenses . and the longer these cuts are in place , the greater the damage .
i am grateful to all of you , and i hope that as a consequence of today ’ s events , as -- as you leave here , you spend a little time thinking about the incredible blessings that god has given us .
most of all , to the family and friends of all those who ’ ve been lost and all those who ’ ve been affected . today we gather to celebrate the lives of those we ’ ve lost to the storms here in joplin and across the midwest , to keep in our prayers those still missing , to mourn with their families , to stand together during this time of pain and trial .
that ’ s what we ’ re doing in somalia , where an african union force , amisom , is helping a new government to stand on its own two feet these efforts have to lead to lasting peace , not just words on a paper or promises that fade away . peace between and within sudan and south sudan , so that these governments get on with the work of investing in their deeply impoverished peoples . peace in the congo with nations keeping their commitments , so rights are at last claimed by the people of this war-torn country , and women and children no longer live in fear . peace in mali , where people will make their voices heard in new elections this summer . in each of these cases , africa must lead and america will help . and america will make no apology for supporting african efforts to end conflict and stand up for human dignity .
through this period of transition , we will carry out further redeployments . and under the status of forces agreement with the iraqi government , i intend to remove all u.s. troops from iraq by the end of 2011. we will complete this transition to iraqi responsibility , and we will bring our troops home with the honor that they have earned .
it is right for us to celebrate dr. king ’ s marvelous oratory , but it is worth remembering that progress did not come from words alone . progress was hard . progress was purchased through enduring the smack of billy clubs and the blast of fire hoses . it was bought with days in jail cells and nights of bomb threats . for every victory during the height of the civil rights movement , there were setbacks and there were defeats .
and finally , every citizen can take action : by learning more ; by going to the website that we helped create -- slaveryfootprint.org ; by speaking up and insisting that the clothes we wear , the food we eat , the products we buy are made free of forced labor ; by standing up against the degradation and abuse of women .
steve collinson . question : do you have reason to believe that iran would walk away from nuclear talks if congress draws up new sanctions ? and would a diplomatic breakdown at this stage leave you no option but military action ? and how do you respond to your critics on the hill who say that it was only tough sanctions that got iran to the table , but only tougher sanctions will make it capitulate ?
and given elena ’ s upbringing , it ’ s a choice that probably came naturally . elena is the granddaughter of immigrants whose mother was , for 20 years , a beloved public schoolteacher -- as are her two brothers , who are here today . her father was a housing lawyer , devoted to the rights of tenants . both were the first in their families to attend college . and from an early age , they instilled in elena not just the value of a good education , but the importance of using it to serve others .
we are here today because 20 years ago , the people of this city took to the streets to claim the promise of a new day , and the fundamental human rights that had been denied them for far too long . sametová revoluce -- the velvet revolution taught us many things . it showed us that peaceful protest could shake the foundations of an empire , and expose the emptiness of an ideology . it showed us that small countries can play a pivotal role in world events , and that young people can lead the way in overcoming old conflicts . and it proved that moral leadership is more powerful than any weapon .
so , class of 2013 , in your four years by the bay , you ’ ve met every test before you . and today is the day that you ’ ve been counting down to for so long . you will take your oath . those boards and gold bars will be placed on your shoulders . and as your commander-in-chief , i congratulate each of you on becoming our newest officers -- ensigns in the united states navy , second lieutenants in the united states marine corps .
at a time when we face unprecedented transition amidst two wars , i 've have asked robert gates to continue as secretary of defense , and i 'm pleased that he 's accepted . two years ago , he took over the pentagon at a difficult time . he restored accountability . he won the confidence of military commanders and the trust of our brave men and women in uniform , as well as their families . he earned the respect of members of congress on both sides of the aisle for his pragmatism and competence . he knows that we need a sustainable national security strategy -- and that includes a bipartisan consensus at home .
massive shifts in technology have shifted profoundly what our economy looks like . massive shifts abroad geopolitically have swift and dramatic impacts not only overseas but also here at home , from markets on wall street to wallets on main street .
we saw mothers and fathers carrying their children on their shoulders to show them what true freedom might look like . we saw a young egyptian say , “ for the first time in my life , i really count . my voice is heard . even though i ’ m only one person , this is the way real democracy works . ”
i will build new partnerships to defeat the threats of the 21st century : terrorism and nuclear proliferation , poverty and genocide , climate change and disease . and i will restore our moral standing so that america is once again that last , best hope for all who are called to the cause of freedom , who long for lives of peace , and who yearn for a better future
i look forward to working with general petraeus and my entire national security team to succeed in our mission . and i reaffirm that america stands as one in our support for the men and women who defend it .
earlier today i gave the commencement address at michigan , where i spoke to the graduates about what is required to keep out democracy thriving in the 21st century . and one of the points i made is that for all the changes and challenges facing your industry , this country absolutely needs a healthy , vibrant media . 'probably needs it more than ever now .
so civil society is the conscience of our countries . it ’ s the catalyst of change . it ’ s why strong nations don ’ t fear active citizens . strong nations embrace and support and empower active citizens . and by the way , it ’ s not as if active citizens are always right -- they ’ re not . sometimes people start yelling at me or arguing at me , and i think , you don ’ t know what you ’ re talking about . but sometimes they do . and the question is not whether they ’ re always right ; the question is , do you have a society in which that conversation , that debate can be tested and ideas are tested in the marketplace .
this is no longer a problem we can wait to fix . this is about who we are as a country . health care reform is about every family 's health , but it 's also about the health of the economy .
on my first day in office , i prohibited -- without exception or equivocation -- the use of torture by the united states of america . i ordered the prison at guantanamo bay closed , and we are doing the hard work of forging a framework to combat extremism within the rule of law . every nation must know : america will live its values , and we will lead by example .
sometimes , folks don ’ t even find out their credit card information has been stolen until they see charges on their bill , and then it ’ s too late . so under the new standard that we ’ re proposing , companies would have to notify consumers of a breach within 30 days .
thank you , god bless you , and god bless the united states of america mr. president , mr. secretary general , fellow delegates , ladies and gentlemen : it is a great honor for me to be here today . i would like to talk to you about a subject that is at the heart of the united nations -- the pursuit of peace in an imperfect world .
the information that we recovered from bin laden ’ s compound shows al qaeda under enormous strain . bin laden expressed concern that al qaeda had been unable to effectively replace senior terrorists that had been killed , and that al qaeda has failed in its effort to portray america as a nation at war with islam -– thereby draining more widespread support . al qaeda remains dangerous , and we must be vigilant against attacks . but we have put al qaeda on a path to defeat , and we will not relent until the job is done .
in this new world , such dangerous currents have swept along faster than our efforts to contain them . and that is why we can not afford to be divided . no one nation , no matter how large or powerful , can defeat such challenges alone . none of us can deny these threats , or escape responsi [ bility ] in meeting them . in the absence of soviet tanks and a terrible wall , it has become easy to forget this truth . and if we ’ re honest with each other , we know that sometimes , on both sides of the atlantic , we have drifted apart , and forgotten our shared destiny .
we can never know how much of this sense was innate in him , or how much was shaped in a dark and solitary cell . but we remember the gestures , large and small -- introducing his jailers as honored guests at his inauguration ; taking a pitch in a springbok uniform ; turning his family ’ s heartbreak into a call to confront hiv/aids -- that revealed the depth of his empathy and his understanding . he not only embodied ubuntu , he taught millions to find that truth within themselves .
fidelity to our values is the reason why the united states of america grew from a small string of colonies under the writ of an empire to the strongest nation in the world . it 's the reason why enemy soldiers have surrendered to us in battle , knowing they 'd receive better treatment from america 's armed forces than from their own government .
so you and i are here today because those people made a different choice . they chose to step up . they chose to serve . and i hope you will follow their example , because there is work to be done , and your country needs you . we ’ ve got an economy to rebuild . we ’ ve got children to educate . we ’ ve got diseases to cure . we ’ ve got threats to face . we ’ ve got an oil spill to clean up . we ’ ve got clean energy to discover . and it is going to be up to you to meet all of those challenges -- to build industries and make discoveries and inspire the next generation . it ’ s going to be up to you to heal the divide that continues to afflict our world .
together , we share a commitment to security for our citizens and the stability of the middle east and north africa . together , we share a focus on advancing economic growth around the globe , and strengthening the middle class within our own countries . together , we share a stake in the success of democracy .
now , there have been proposals on both sides of the aisle and in both houses of congress to extend the patriot act for three months so that we can reach an agreement on this bill that is well thought through . i support these efforts and will oppose cloture on what i consider to be this unacceptable conference report .
audience : no . the president : see ? i got some amens there . perhaps you ’ re the first in your family to go to college . some of you have had to overcome big obstacles , defeat your own doubts , prove yourself to everyone who ever believed that you couldn ’ t make it because of what you look like or where you came from . and , of course -- of course , for so many of you , this day represents the fulfillment of your family ’ s dreams when you were born . this is their achievement as well , so give it up for your parents and your grandparents , your cousins and your uncles and your aunties . this is their day , too . this is their day , too .
so i 'll leave you with a picture that captures this spirit . it 's from that day in december , when the last convoy rolled out , five american soldiers standing beside their vehicle , marked with the words , `` last vehicle out of iraq . '' they 're young , men and women , shoulder to shoulder , proud , heads held high , finally going home . and they were asked what it was like to be , literally , the last troops out of iraq . and one of them gave a simple reply : `` we completed the mission . '' we completed the mission . we did our jobs .
now , the other congressionally imposed deadline coming up is the so-called debt ceiling -- something most americans hadn ’ t even heard of before two years ago . i want to be clear about this . the debt ceiling is not a question of authorizing more spending . raising the debt ceiling does not authorize more spending . it simply allows the country to pay for spending that congress has already committed to . these are bills that have already been racked up and we need to pay them .
it was an approach that said we need to go through the budget line-by-line looking for waste , without shortchanging education and basic scientific research and road construction , because those things are essential to our future . and it was an approach that said we should n't balance the budget on the backs of the poor and the middle class ; that for us to solve this problem , everybody , including the wealthiest americans and biggest corporations , have to pay their fair share .
the truth is , not a single one of the graduates here today has had it easy . not a single one of you had anything handed to you on a silver platter . you had to work for it . you had to earn it . most of all , you had to believe in yourselves .
thank you . president obama : thank you very much , everybody . hello , warsaw ! witaj , polsko ! mr. president ; mr. prime minister ; madam mayor ; heads of state and government , past and present -- including the man who jumped that shipyard wall to lead a strike that became a movement , the prisoner turned president who transformed this nation -- thank you , lech walesa , for your outstanding leadership .
they could not have known these things . but still surrounded by death they willed themselves to hold fast to life . in their hearts they still had faith that evil would not triumph in the end , that while history is unknowable it arches towards progress , and that the world would one day remember them .
and tonight we pay tribute to the americans who still serve in harm 's way . we are forever in debt to a generation whose sacrifice has made this country safer and more respected . we will never forget you and so long as i 'm commander-in-chief we will sustain the strongest military the world has ever known . when you take off the uniform , we will serve you as well as you 've served us , because no one who fights for this country should have to fight for a job or a roof over their heads or the care that they need when they come home .
of course , that 's not the only thing that we 've been accused of socializing this year . you might have heard we passed a health care bill and -- is that roger ailes applauding out there ? some republicans have suggested that the bill contains a few secret provisions . that 's ridiculous . there aren ’ t a few secret provisions in the health care plan -- there are , like , hundreds .
we can not wait any longer to protect the american people . i 've made this a priority in the senate , where i worked with republican senator dick lugar to pass a law accelerating our pursuit of loose nuclear materials . i 'll lead a global effort to secure all loose nuclear materials around the world during my first term as president . and i 'll develop new defenses to protect against the 21st century threat of biological weapons and cyber-terrorism -- threats that i 'll discuss in more detail tomorrow .
and now , as we emerge from recession , we must not avert our eyes from the insult of widening inequality , or the pain of youth who are unemployed . we have to build new ladders of opportunity in our own societies that -- even as we pursue new trade and investment that fuels growth across the atlantic .
audience member : excuse me , president obama -- president obama : so -- let me finish , ma'am . so today , once again -- audience member : there are 102 people on a hunger strike . these are desperate people .
through many dangers , toils and snares i have already come ; 't is grace that brought me safe thus far and grace will lead me home… yea , when this flesh and heart shall fail ,
that is not to say that indonesia is without imperfections . no country is . but here we can find the ability to bridge divides of race and region and religion -- by the ability to see yourself in other people . as a child of a different race who came here from a distant country , i found this spirit in the greeting that i received upon moving here : selamat datang . as a christian visiting a mosque on this visit , i found it in the words of a leader who was asked about my visit and said , “ muslims are also allowed in churches . we are all god ’ s followers . ”
now , up till now , the debate here in washington , the cuts proposed by a lot of folks in washington , have focused exclusively on that 12 percent . but cuts to that 12 percent alone won ’ t solve the problem . so any serious plan to tackle our deficit will require us to put everything on the table , and take on excess spending wherever it exists in the budget .
i want to thank general petraeus , not only for the introduction and the t-shirts , but for general petraeus ’ s lifetime of service . this is somebody who has helped change the way we fight wars and win wars in the 21st century . and i am very grateful that he agreed to take command of our efforts here in afghanistan . he has been an extraordinary warrior on behalf of the american people . thank you , david petraeus .
good luck . god bless you . and god bless all the people of northern ireland . thank you . well , good morning , everybody . welcome to the white house . it is a pleasure to have so many distinguished americans today from so many different walks of life . we ’ ve got democrats and republicans ; we 've got labor and business leaders up on stage ; we have law enforcement and clergy -- americans who don ’ t see eye-to-eye on every issue , in fact , in some cases , do n't see eye-to-eye on just about any issue -- but who are today standing united in support of the legislation that is front and center in congress this week -- a bipartisan bill to fix our broken immigration system .
this is the ninth consecutive commencement that has taken place at west point with our nation at war . this time of war began in afghanistan -- a place that may seem as far away from this peaceful bend in the hudson river as anywhere on earth . the war began only because our own cities and civilians were attacked by violent extremists who plotted from a distant place , and it continues only because that plotting persists to this day .
today , i also spoke with the king of saudi arabia to reaffirm our commitment to the security of our partners in the gulf . and i ’ m inviting the leaders of the six countries who make up the gulf cooperation council -- saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , kuwait , oman , qatar , and bahrain -- to meet me at camp david this spring to discuss how we can further strengthen our security cooperation , while resolving the multiple conflicts that have caused so much hardship and instability throughout the middle east .
that ’ s good to know . in a world that can be cruel and selfish , it ’ s this knowledge -- the knowledge that we are inclined to love one another , that we ’ re inclined to do good , to be good -- that causes us to take heart . we see with fresh eyes what ’ s precious and so fragile and so important to us . we put aside our petty grievances and our minor disagreements . we see ourselves in the hopes and hardships of others . and in the stories of people like dean and people like christopher , we remember that each us contains reserves of resolve and compassion . there are heroes all around us , all the time .
and so i want to be very clear : we sent our troops to iraq to do away with saddam hussein ’ s regime – and you got the job done . we kept our troops in iraq to help establish a sovereign government – and you got the job done . and we will leave the iraqi people with a hard-earned opportunity to live a better life – that is your achievement ; that is the prospect that you have made possible .
we ’ re also encouraging the next generation of businesses and entrepreneurs . so we ’ ll work with the inter-american development bank to increase lending . we ’ ve expanded credit under a new microfinance growth fund for the americas . we ’ re supporting reforms to tax systems , which are critical for economic growth and public investment . we ’ re creating new “ pathways to prosperity ” -- microcredit , entrepreneurship training -- for those who must share in economic growth , including women and members of afro-caribbean and indigenous communities .
its illicit nuclear program is just one challenge that iran poses . as i said on thursday , the iranian government has shown its hypocrisy by claiming to support the rights of protesters while treating its own people with brutality . moreover , iran continues to support terrorism across the region , including providing weapons and funds to terrorist organizations . so we will continue to work to prevent these actions , and we will stand up to groups like hezbollah , who exercise political assassination and seek to impose their will through rockets and car bombs .
we ’ re not just ending these wars ; we ’ re doing it in a way that achieves our objectives . moreover , it ’ s allowed us to broaden our vision and begin a new era of american leadership . we ’ re leading from europe to the asia pacific , with alliances that have never been stronger . we ’ re leading the fight against nuclear dangers . we ’ ve applied the strongest sanctions ever on iran and north korea -- nations that can not be allowed to threaten the world with nuclear weapons . we ’ re leading on behalf of freedom -- standing with people in the middle east and north africa as they demand their rights ; protecting the libyan people as they rid the world of muammar qaddafi .
that ’ s the americai know . we just have to act like it again to write that next chapter in the american story . if we do , we can keep americasafe while extending security and opportunity around the world . we can hold true to our values , and in doing so advance those values abroad . and we can be what that child looking up at a helicopter needs us to be : the relentless opponent of terror and tyranny , and the light of hope to the world .
keep in mind that what we 've heard from some republicans in both the house and the senate is that they will only increase the debt ceiling by the amount of spending cuts that they 're able to push through and -- in order to replace the automatic spending cuts of the sequester -- that 's $ 1.2 trillion . say it takes another trillion or trillion-two to get us through one more year , they 'd have to identify $ 2.5 trillion in cuts just to get the debt ceiling extended to next year -- $ 2.5 trillion .
and by the way , the federal government is going to need to lead by example . the fleet of cars and trucks we use in the federal government is one of the largest in the country . we ’ ve got a lot of cars . and that ’ s why we ’ ve already doubled the number of alternative vehicles in the federal fleet . and that ’ s why today i am directing agencies to purchase 100 percent alternative fuel , hybrid , or electric vehicles by 2015. all of them should be alternative fuel .
as i ’ ve said before -- i think i said in the previous press conference -- our military is the best in the world . we can route isis on the ground and keep a lid on things temporarily . but then as soon as we leave , the same problems come back again . so we ’ ve got to make sure that iraqis understand in the end they 're going to be responsible for their own security . and part of that is going to be the capacity for them to make compromises .
so in order to spur more of a conversation to get more folks engaged , we ’ re going to try something new to help do this . it ’ s not a fancy new program . it ’ s not -- it doesn ’ t have a complicated acronym . it doesn ’ t involve new spending or bureaucracy . it ’ s just a simple organizing principle that i want all of us to sign onto , a declaration of values –- what i ’ m calling a student aid bill of rights .
and this is going to generate huge and serious debates , important debates . and there are going to be some fierce disagreements -- and that ’ s good . that ’ s how democracy is supposed to work . and i am confident that the american people and america ’ s political leaders can come together in a bipartisan way and solve these problems . we always have .
what bothered the doctor was an entry that my campaign staff had posted on my website -- an entry that said i would fight , quote , `` right-wing ideologues who want to take away a woman 's right to choose , '' unquote . the doctor said he had assumed i was a reasonable person . he supported my policy initiatives to help the poor and to lift up our educational system , but that if i truly believed that every pro-life individual was simply an ideologue who wanted to inflict suffering on women , then i was not very reasonable . he wrote , `` i do not ask at this point that you oppose abortion , only that you speak about this issue in fair-minded words . ''
i ’ ll bet that went over great with barbara . we know about the young man who met the love of his life at a dinner party , ditching his plans to go to bed early and instead talking with the brilliant and charming laura welch late into the night .
targeted action against terrorists , effective partnerships , diplomatic engagement and assistance -- through such a comprehensive strategy we can significantly reduce the chances of large-scale attacks on the homeland and mitigate threats to americans overseas . but as we guard against dangers from abroad , we can not neglect the daunting challenge of terrorism from within our borders .
even in his later years , after turning 100 , frank buckles still gave back to his country . he ’ d go speak to schoolchildren about his extraordinary life . he ’ d meet and inspire other veterans . and for 80 years , he served as a proud member of the american legion .
it will rehabilitate homes and businesses in communities hit hardest by foreclosures . it will jumpstart thousands of transportation projects all across the country . and to make sure the money is properly spent , we ’ re building on reforms we ’ ve already put in place .
i have read the letters from the parents and spouses of those who deployed . i 've visited our courageous wounded warriors at walter reed . i 've travelled to dover to meet the flag-draped caskets of 18 americans returning home to their final resting place.1 i see firsthand the terrible wages of war .
and so hopefully that spirit continues and grows . if nothing else comes out of this tragedy , let ’ s hope that that 's one of the things that comes out . so thank you very much , everybody .
and i promise you this : long after the killers are brought to justice , chris stevens ’ s legacy will live on in the lives that he touched -- in the tens of thousands who marched against violence through the streets of benghazi ; in the libyans who changed their facebook photo to one of chris ; in the signs that read , simply , `` chris stevens was a friend to all libyans . ''
so it is great to be at the world headquarters of such an iconic company -- a company that helps athletes succeed from the individual to the world stage . and as you ’ ve heard , i ’ ve come to oregon to talk a little bit about trade -- which initially may have had some people thinking , what , is mariota going someplace that we didn ’ t know about ? he ’ s going to be great . he ’ s an outstanding young man . he ’ s going to be terrific -- and from hawaii , by the way . local boy .
none of us will get 100 percent of what we want . democrats , they 've got to make some tough choices too . democrats like me , we 've said we 're prepared to make some tough cuts and reforms , including to programs like medicare . but if we 're willing to compromise , then republicans in the house have to compromise as well . that ’ s what democracy is about . that ’ s what this country needs right now .
but it does n't prevent them from going onto the floor of the house and blasting me for being a big-spending socialist and the reason that , in many cases , congress votes the way they do , or talks the way they talk , or takes positions in negotiations that they take does n't have to do with me . it has to do with the imperatives that they feel in terms of their own politics -- right ? they 're worried about their district . they 're worried about what 's going on back home .
anyway , it ’ s great to be here this evening in the vast , magnificent hilton ballroom -- or what mitt romney would call a little fixer-upper . i mean , look at this party . we ’ ve got men in tuxes , women in gowns , fine wine , first-class entertainment . i was just relieved to learn this was not a gsa conference . unbelievable . not even the mind reader knew what they were thinking .
and as i said before , there are a bunch of good bipartisan ideas out there . a few days ago , senator alexander joined forces with a democratic senator , michael bennet , to introduce the legislation that would make financial aid forms simpler .
let me offer a few thoughts on this . first and foremost , they did so by remaining firm in their resolve . despite being threatened by sniper fire or planted bombs , by shoving and punching and spitting and angry stares , they adhered to that sweet spirit of resistance , the principles of nonviolence that had accounted for their success .
and welcome to the fourth quarter of my presidency . it 's true -- that was michelle cheering . the fact is , i feel more loose and relaxed than ever . those joe biden shoulder massages , they 're like magic . you should try one . oh , you have .
distinguished guests , ladies and gentlemen , to all the students and young people who are here today , to the people of india watching and listening across this vast nation -- i bring the friendship and the greetings of the american people . on behalf of myself and michelle , thank you so much for welcoming us back to india . bahoot dhanyavad .
in our lives , michelle and i have been strengthened by our christian faith . but there have been times where my faith has been questioned -- by people who do n't know me -- or they 've said that i adhere to a different religion , as if that were somehow a bad thing .
god bless you . god bless all of our veterans . and god bless the united states of america . let me first of all say how grateful i am for all of you being here , and how -- how much we appreciate everything that you 've done . i know that there are a lot of people here who have been so engaged in the campaign , have sacrificed so much , people who 've been involved back since 2007. and ... so i ... want all of you to know how appreciative i am .
today , after a difficult decade that began with war and ended in recession , our nations have arrived at a pivotal moment once more . a global economy that once stood on the brink of depression is now stable and recovering . after years of conflict , the united states has removed 100,000 troops from iraq , the united kingdom has removed its forces , and our combat mission there has ended . in afghanistan , we ’ ve broken the taliban ’ s momentum and will soon begin a transition to afghan lead . and nearly 10 years after 9/11 , we have disrupted terrorist networks and dealt al qaeda a huge blow by killing its leader -- osama bin laden .
so if we 're going to move forward , we ca n't just talk past one another . we 've got to listen to one another . that 's what governor malloy and all these legislative leaders did . that 's why they were able to pass bipartisan legislation .
a hope gap . a hope gap that still pervades too many communities all across the country and right here in alabama . so the question is , then , what are we , the joshua generation , doing to close those gaps ? are we doing every single thing that we can do in congress in order to make sure that early education is adequately funded and making sure that we are raising the minimum wage so people can have dignity and respect ?
that means slashing education , surrendering the research necessary to keep america ’ s technological edge in the 21st century , and allowing our critical public assets like highways and bridges and airports to get worse .
this effort will be led by our new ambassador to iraq – chris hill . from his time in the peace corps , to his work in kosovo and korea , ambassador hill has been tested , and he has shown the pragmatism and skill that we need right now . he will be supported by the courageous and capable work of so many american diplomats and aid workers who are serving in iraq .
now , here 's what we know so far : on christmas day , northwest airlines flight 253 was en route from amsterdam , netherlands , to detroit . as the plane made its final approach to detroit metropolitan airport , a passenger allegedly tried to ignite an explosive device on his body , setting off a fire . thanks to the quick and heroic actions of passengers and crew , the suspect was immediately subdued , the fire was put out , and the plane landed safely . the suspect is now in custody and has been charged with attempting to destroy an aircraft . and a full investigation has been launched into this attempted act of terrorism , and we will not rest until we find all who were involved and hold them accountable .
it ’ s because they understand that when i get a tax break i don ’ t need and the country can ’ t afford , it either adds to the deficit , or somebody else has to make up the difference -- like a senior on a fixed income , or a student trying to get through school , or a family trying to make ends meet .
one thing that we ’ ve discovered , though , that i think is worth noting : a lot of focus has been on the website and the technology , and that 's partly because that 's how we initially identified it -- these are glitches . what we ’ re discovering is that part of the problem has been technology -- hardware and software -- and that 's being upgraded . but even if we get the hardware and software working exactly the way it ’ s supposed to with relatively minor glitches , what we ’ re also discovering is that insurance is complicated to buy .
you also see our commitment to our shared security in our determination to prevent iran from acquiring nuclear weapons . here in the united states , we ’ ve imposed the toughest sanctions ever on the iranian regime . at the united nations , under our leadership , we ’ ve secured the most comprehensive international sanctions on the regime , which have been joined by allies and partners around the world . today , iran is virtually cut off from large parts of the international financial system , and we ’ re going to keep up the pressure . so let me be absolutely clear -- we remain committed to preventing iran from acquiring nuclear weapons .
moreover , the united states will continue to support those nations that transition to democracy -- with greater trade and investment -- so that freedom is followed by opportunity . we will pursue a deeper engagement with governments , but also with civil society -- students and entrepreneurs , political parties and the press . we have banned those who abuse human rights from traveling to our country . and we ’ ve sanctioned those who trample on human rights abroad . and we will always serve as a voice for those who 've been silenced .
so , mr. president , let me once again thank you for everything you ’ ve done to strengthen our alliance and our friendship . i ’ m looking forward to paying tribute to the bonds between our people at the dinner tonight and to working with you as we write the next chapter in the relationship between our two countries .
now , make no mistake -- this is not over . because we not only took out the symbol and operational leader of al qaeda , we walked off with his files -- the largest treasure trove of intelligence ever seized from a terrorist leader . many of you now are working around the clock ; you didn ’ t have much time to celebrate . we ’ ve got to analyze and evaluate and exploit this mountain of intelligence .
and as i reflect on the full sweep of his 92 years , it seems to me that his life bent towards justice . like the constitution he tucked in his pocket , like our nation itself , robert byrd possessed that quintessential american quality , and that is a capacity to change , a capacity to learn , a capacity to listen , a capacity to be made more perfect .
a newspaper of the opposing party once editorialized that if thomas jefferson were elected , “ murder , robbery , rape , adultery , and incest will be openly taught and practiced. ” not subtle .
as we do , we continue to forge a partnership with the afghan people for the long term . and we will never let this country serve as a safe haven for terrorists who would attack the united states of america again . that will never happen . hooah !
already , we have made an historic investment in education through the economic recovery plan . we have dramatically expanded early childhood education and will continue to improve its quality , because we know that the most formative learning comes in those first years of life . we have made college affordable for nearly seven million more students . and we have provided the resources necessary to prevent painful cuts and teacher layoffs that would set back our children ’ s progress .
fourth , in investigating threats , the fbi also relies on what 's called national security letters , which can require companies to provide specific and limited information to the government without disclosing the orders to the subject of the investigation . these are cases in which it 's important that the subject of the investigation , such as a possible terrorist or spy , isn ’ t tipped off . but we can and should be more transparent in how government uses this authority .
today , there are more than 20,000 people in the region working around the clock to contain and clean up this spill . we ’ ve activated about 1,400 members of the national guard across four states . nearly 1,400 vessels are aiding in the containment and cleanup effort . and we deployed more than 3 million feet of hard and sorbent boom , including an additional 100,000 just yesterday for these parishes in louisiana that face the greatest threat .
so today we ’ re announcing the expansion of offshore oil and gas exploration , but in ways that balance the need to harness domestic energy resources and the need to protect america ’ s natural resources . under the leadership of secretary salazar , we ’ ll employ new technologies that reduce the impact of oil exploration . we ’ ll protect areas that are vital to tourism , the environment , and our national security . and we ’ ll be guided not by political ideology , but by scientific evidence .
our work is not done . and so on this day , in which we celebrate a man and a movement that did so much for this country , let us draw strength from those earlier struggles . first and foremost , let us remember that change has never been quick . change has never been simple , or without controversy . change depends on persistence . change requires determination . it took a full decade before the moral guidance of brown v. board of education was translated into the enforcement measures of the civil rights act and the voting rights act , but those 10 long years did not lead dr. king to give up . he kept on pushing , he kept on speaking , he kept on marching until change finally came .
on the military front , nearly all the additional forces that i ordered to afghanistan are now in place . along with our afghan and international partners , we are going on the offensive against the taliban -- targeting their leaders , challenging them in regions where they had free reign , and training afghan national security forces . our thoughts and prayers are with all our troops risking their lives for our safety in afghanistan .
we ’ re also doing more to stem the southbound flow of guns into the region . we ’ re screening all southbound rail cargo . we ’ re seizing many more guns bound for mexico and we ’ re putting more gunrunners behind bars . and every gun or gunrunner that we take off the streets is one less threat to the families and communities of the americas .
since 2003 , she ’ s been co-director of the national bureau of economic research monetary economics program . she ’ s also a member of the bureau ’ s business cycle dating committee , the body charged with officially determining whether a recession has started and ended , experience which will serve her well as she advises me on our current economic challenges . christina has done groundbreaking research on many of the topics our administration will confront , from tax policy to fighting recessions . and her clear-eyed , independent analyses have received praise from both conservative and liberal thinkers alike . i look forward to her wise counsel in the white house .
what i ’ ve always said , though , is that there ’ s the possibility of backsliding . there ’ s the possibility that it doesn ’ t get memorialized in a way that satisfies us that we ’ re able to verify that , in fact , iran is not getting a nuclear weapon , and that we are preserving the capacity to snap back sanctions in the event that they are breaking any deal .
but as i ’ ve said before , we can ’ t just cut our way to prosperity . if we ’ re serious about reducing the deficit , we have to combine spending cuts with revenue -- and that means asking the wealthiest americans to pay a little more in taxes . that ’ s how we did it -- that 's how we did it in the 1990s , when bill clinton was president . that ’ s how we can reduce the deficit while still making the investments we need to build a strong middle class and a strong economy . that ’ s the only way we can still afford to train our workers , or help our kids pay for college , or make sure that good jobs in clean energy or high-tech manufacturing don ’ t end up in countries like china .
thank you very much . hello ! hello , everybody ! thank you so much . thank you . thank you very much . everybody , please have a seat . thank you very much . thank you . let me just begin by making a few acknowledgements . first of all , i 've got some outstanding fathers here in the first row who aren ’ t seeing their kids enough because i 'm working them all the time -- three members of my cabinet : secretary of the treasury tim geithner -- attorney general eric holder -- and secretary of commerce gary locke are here .
it is , of course , the golden rule -- the call to treat one another as we wish to be treated . the call to love . the call to serve . to do what we can to make a difference in the lives of those with whom we share the same brief moment on this earth .
the talmud tells us : `` the whole of the torah is for the purpose of promoting peace . '' the holy bible tells us : `` blessed are the peacemakers , for they shall be called sons of god . ''
on the other side , there are going to be some who argue that we don ’ t go nearly far enough ; who suggest we should open all our waters to energy exploration without any restriction or regard for the broader environmental and economic impact . and to those folks i ’ ve got to say this : we have less than 2 percent of the world ’ s oil reserves ; we consume more than 20 percent of the world ’ s oil . and what that means is that drilling alone can ’ t come close to meeting our long-term energy needs . and for the sake of our planet and our energy independence , we need to begin the transition to cleaner fuels now .
so this week , i ’ m laying out some new proposals on how we can keep seizing the possibilities of an information age , while protecting the security and prosperity and values that we all cherish . today , i ’ m focusing on how we can better protect american consumers from identity theft and ensure our privacy , including for our children at school . and then tomorrow , at the department of homeland security , i ’ ll focus on how we can work with the private sector to better defend ourselves against cyber-attacks . and final , on wednesday , in iowa , i ’ ll talk about how we can give families and communities faster , cheaper access to broadband so they can succeed in the digital economy .
starting in 2011 , we will enact a three-year freeze on all discretionary spending outside of national security -- something that was never enacted in the last administration . we will allow the tax cuts for the wealthiest americans to expire .
now , what makes today ’ s stalemate so dangerous is that it has been tied to something known as the debt ceiling -– a term that most people outside of washington have probably never heard of before .
now , my health care proposal has also been attacked by some who oppose reform as a `` government takeover '' of the entire health care system . as proof , critics point to a provision in our plan that allows the uninsured and small businesses to choose a publicly sponsored insurance option , administered by the government just like medicaid or medicare .
we know that our economies attract more trade and investment when citizens are free to start a new business without paying a bribe . we know that our societies are more likely to succeed when all our people -- regardless of color , or class , or creed , or sexual orientation , or gender -- are free to live and pray and love as they choose . that ’ s what we believe .
in afghanistan , we continue to work with a coalition of nations to build the capacity of the afghan government to secure its future . our shared interest is in building peace in a war-torn land -- a peace that provides no safe haven for violent extremists , and that provide hope for the afghan people .
but i 'm here today because our work is far from done . for even though we 've reduced the deluge of job losses to a relative trickle , we are not yet creating jobs at a pace to help all those families who 've been swept up in the flood . there are more than 7 million fewer americans with jobs today than when this recession began . that 's a staggering figure , and one that reflects not only the depths of the hole from which we must ascend , but also a continuing human tragedy .
faced with this opposition , qaddafi began attacking his people . as president , my immediate concern was the safety of our citizens , so we evacuated our embassy and all americans who sought our assistance . then we took a series of swift steps in a matter of days to answer qaddafi ’ s aggression . we froze more than $ 33 billion of qaddafi ’ s regime ’ s assets . joining with other nations at the united nations security council , we broadened our sanctions , imposed an arms embargo , and enabled qaddafi and those around him to be held accountable for their crimes . i made it clear that qaddafi had lost the confidence of his people and the legitimacy to lead , and i said that he needed to step down from power .
q : you just expressed confidence that the iraqi government can eventually prevent a safe haven . but you ’ ve also just described the complications with the iraqi government and the sophistication of isil . so is it possible that what you ’ ve described and your ambitions there could take years , not months ?
this is also why we 're moving aggressively to unfreeze markets and jumpstart lending outside the banking system , where more than half of all lending in america actually takes place . to do this , we 've started a program that will increase guarantees for small business loans and unlock the market for auto loans and student loans . and to stabilize the housing market , we 've launched a plan that will save up to four million responsible homeowners from foreclosure and help many millions more to refinance their homes .
america intends to keep our end of the bargain . we will pursue a new agreement with russia to substantially reduce our strategic warheads and launchers . we will move forward with ratification of the test ban treaty , and work with others to bring the treaty into force so that nuclear testing is permanently prohibited . we will complete a nuclear posture review that opens the door to deeper cuts and reduces the role of nuclear weapons . and we will call upon countries to begin negotiations in january on a treaty to end the production of fissile material for weapons .
climate change and our dependence on foreign oil , if left unaddressed , will continue to weaken our economy and threaten our national security . i know many of you are working to confront this challenge . in particular , i want to commend governor sebelius , governor doyle , governor crist , governor blagojevich and your host , governor schwarzenegger . all of you have shown true leadership in the fight to combat global warming . and we ’ ve also seen a number of businesses doing their part by investing in clean energy technologies .
and these questions matter to every american . for over the last decade , our nation has spent well over a trillion dollars on war , helping to explode our deficits and constraining our ability to nation-build here at home . our servicemembers and their families have sacrificed far more on our behalf . nearly 7,000 americans have made the ultimate sacrifice . many more have left a part of themselves on the battlefield , or brought the shadows of battle back home . from our use of drones to the detention of terrorist suspects , the decisions that we are making now will define the type of nation -- and world -- that we leave to our children .
but we must also insist that we reject as false the choice between our interests and our ideals ; between stability and democracy . for our idealism is rooted in the realities of history -- that repression offers only the false promise of stability , that societies are more successful when their citizens are free , and that democracies are the closest allies we have
may god bless our troops . and may god bless the united states of america . all right . good morning . in a few moments , i ’ ll be joining members of our armed forces , their families , and veterans for the memorial day observance at arlington . there , and across our nation , we ’ ll pause to honor all those who ’ ve given their last full measure of devotion in defense of our country . theirs was the ultimate sacrifice , but it is one that every man and woman who wears america ’ s uniform is prepared to make -- so that we can live free .
now , finally , many in this chamber -- particularly on the republican side of the aisle -- have long insisted that reforming our medical malpractice laws can help bring down the cost of health care . now -- there you go . there you go . now , i do n't believe malpractice reform is a silver bullet , but i 've talked to enough doctors to know that defensive medicine may be contributing to unnecessary costs.so i 'm proposing that we move forward on a range of ideas about how to put patient safety first and let doctors focus on practicing medicine . i know that the bush administration considered authorizing demonstration projects in individual states to test these ideas . i think it 's a good idea , and i 'm directing my secretary of health and human services to move forward on this initiative today .
we can ’ t be discouraged by what is . we ’ ve got to keep pushing for what ought to be , the america we ought to leave to our children , mindful that the hardships we face are nothing compared to those dr. king and his fellow marchers faced 50 years ago , and that if we maintain our faith , in ourselves and in the possibilities of this nation , there is no challenge we can not surmount
i chose to run for president at this moment in history because i believe deeply that we can not solve the challenges of our time unless we solve them together , unless we perfect our union by understanding that we may have different stories , but we hold common hopes ; that we may not look the same and may not have come from the same place , but we all want to move in the same direction : towards a better future for our children and our grandchildren .
we ’ ve endured too many of these tragedies in the past few years . and each time i learn the news i react not as a president , but as anybody else would -- as a parent . and that was especially true today . i know there ’ s not a parent in america who doesn ’ t feel the same overwhelming grief that i do .
finally , as free peoples , we join together , not simply to safeguard our own security but to advance the freedom of others . today we affirm the principles for which we stand .
as soon as next week , every senator will get a chance to vote on a proposal to help strengthen school safety and help people struggling with mental health problems get the treatment that they need .
tomorrow , secretary clinton will go to london , where she will meet with the libyan opposition and consult with more than 30 nations . these discussions will focus on what kind of political effort is necessary to pressure qaddafi , while also supporting a transition to the future that the libyan people deserve -- because while our military mission is narrowly focused on saving lives , we continue to pursue the broader goal of a libya that belongs not to a dictator , but to its people .
all this change has n't been easy . change never is . so i 've cut the tension by bringing a new friend to the white house . he 's warm , he 's cuddly , loyal , enthusiastic . you just have to keep him on a tight leash . every once in a while he goes charging off in the wrong direction and gets himself into trouble . but enough about joe biden .
across the country , these cuts will force federal prosecutors to close cases and potentially let criminals go . air traffic controllers and airport security will see cutbacks , and that could cause delays at airports across the country . tens of thousands of parents will have to scramble to find child care for their kids . hundreds of thousands of americans will lose access to primary care and preventive care like flu vaccinations and cancer screenings , including more than 3,500 children right here in virginia .
as two global partners , we stand up for the security and the dignity of people around the world . we see it when our rescue workers rush to help others in times of fire and drought and flooding rains . we see it when we partner to keep the peace -- from east timor to the balkans -- and when we pursue our shared vision : a world without nuclear weapons . we see it in the development that lifts up a child in africa ; the assistance that saves a family from famine ; and when we extend our support to the people of the middle east and north africa , who deserve the same liberty that allows us to gather in this great hall of democracy .
they can , and they must , and they will meet higher standards in our time so let 's challenge our states -- let 's challenge our states to adopt world-class standards that will bring our curriculums to the 21st century . today 's system of 50 different sets of benchmarks for academic success means 4th grade readers in mississippi are scoring nearly 70 points lower than students in wyoming -- and they 're getting the same grade . eight of our states are setting their standards so low that their students may end up on par with roughly the bottom 40 percent of the world .
it ’ s not a view that we should somehow turn back technology or put up walls around america . it ’ s not a view that says we should punish profit or success or pretend that government knows how to fix all of society ’ s problems . it is a view that says in america we are greater together -- when everyone engages in fair play and everybody gets a fair shot and everybody does their fair share .
and the chairman of the grand traverse band of ottawa and chippewa indian tribe , derek bailey is here . please give derek a big round of applause . and finally , the president of the college where we are here , jim jacobs . give jim jacobs a big round of applause .
as we work to advance our shared prosperity , we can partner to address a second priority -- and that is our shared security . in mumbai , i met with the courageous families and survivors of that barbaric attack . and here in parliament , which was itself targeted because of the democracy it represents , we honor the memory of all those who have been taken from us , including american citizens on 26/11 and indian citizens on 9/11 .
this is a prescription for economic decline , because we know the countries that out-teach us today will out-compete us tomorrow . that is why it will be the goal of this administration to ensure that every child has access to a complete and competitive education – from the day they are born to the day they begin a career .
we ’ re also launching a new transitional jobs initiative for ex-offenders and low-income , non-custodial fathers -- because these are men who often face serious barriers to finding work and keeping work . we ’ ll help them develop the skills and experience they need to move into full-time , long-term employment , so they can meet their child support obligations and help provide for their families .
our first priority is making america a magnet for new jobs and manufacturing . after shedding jobs for more than 10 years , our manufacturers have added about 500,000 jobs over the past three . caterpillar is bringing jobs back from japan . ford is bringing jobs back from mexico . and this year , apple will start making macs in america again .
president obama : yes . when i came into this office , i made two commitments that are more important than any commitment i made : number one , to keep the american people safe ; and number two , to uphold the constitution . and that includes what i consider to be a constitutional right to privacy and an observance of civil liberties .
as secretary napolitano will explain , the screening technologies that might have detected these explosives are in use at the amsterdam airport , but not at the specific checkpoints that he passed through . indeed , most airports in the world -- and in the united states -- do not yet have these technologies .
we have to make sure that every business and every worker in america is playing by the same set of rules . we have to bring this shadow economy into the light so that everybody is held accountable -- businesses for who they hire , and immigrants for getting on the right side of the law . that ’ s common sense . and that ’ s why we need comprehensive immigration reform .
to lift the specter of mass destruction , we must come together to pursue the peace and security of a world without nuclear weapons . over the last two years , we 've begun to walk down that path . since our nuclear security summit in washington , nearly 50 nations have taken steps to secure nuclear materials from terrorists and smugglers . next march , a summit in seoul will advance our efforts to lock down all of them . the new start treaty between the united states and russia will cut our deployed arsenals to the lowest level in half a century , and our nations are pursuing talks on how to achieve even deeper reductions . america will continue to work for a ban on the testing of nuclear weapons and the production of fissile material needed to make them .
when it comes to the cost of our health care , then , the status quo is unsustainable . so reform is not a luxury ; it is a necessity . when i hear people say , well , why are you taking this on right now , you 've got all these other problems , i keep on reminding people i 'd love to be able to defer these issues , but we ca n't . i know there 's been much discussion about what reform would cost , and rightly so . this is a test of whether we -- democrats and republicans alike -- are serious about holding the line on new spending and restoring fiscal discipline .
the talmud teaches us that , `` so long as a person still has life , they should never abandon faith . '' and that lesson seems especially fitting today . for so long as there are those across the middle east and beyond who are standing up for the legitimate rights and freedoms which have been denied by their governments , the united states will never abandon our support for those rights that are universal .
i am running for president because i am sick and tired of democrats thinking that the only way to look tough on national security is by talking , and acting , and voting like george bush republicans .
that 's what this reform will mean . now , it doesn ’ t mean our work is over . for these new rules to be effective , regulators will have to be vigilant . we may need to make adjustments along the way as our financial system adapts to these new changes and changes around the globe . no law can force anybody to be responsible ; it ’ s still incumbent on those on wall street to heed the lessons of this crisis in terms of how they conduct their businesses .
i had faith in israel before it was established . i believe it has a glorious future before it -- as not just another sovereign nation , but as an embodiment of the great ideals of our civilization .
when waves of irish and italian immigrants were derided as criminals and outcasts ; when catholics were discriminated against , or jews had to succumb to quotas , or muslims were blamed for society ’ s ills ; when blacks were treated as second-class citizens and marriages like my own parents ’ were illegal in much of the country -- we didn ’ t stop . we didn ’ t accept inequality . we fought . we overcame . we carried the dream forward .
now , peace must be made by israelis and palestinians , but each of us has a responsibility to do our part as well . those of us who are friends of israel must understand that true security for the jewish state requires an independent palestine -- one that allows the palestinian people to live with dignity and opportunity . and those of us who are friends of the palestinians must understand that the rights of the palestinian people will be won only through peaceful means -- including genuine reconciliation with a secure israel .
clearly , thomas jefferson never had cable news to contend with -- but his central point remains : a government without newspapers , a government without a tough and vibrant media of all sorts , is not an option for the united states of america .
consider background checks . over the past 20 years , background checks have kept more than 2 million dangerous people from getting their hands on a gun . a group of police officers in colorado told me last week that , thanks to background checks , they 've been able to stop convicted murderers , folks under restraining orders for committing violent domestic abuse from buying a gun . in some cases , they 've actually arrested the person as they were coming to purchase the gun .
these events are also an affirmation of who we are as americans . our founders understood that the best way to honor the place of faith in the lives of our people was to protect their freedom to practice religion . in the virginia act of establishing religion freedom , thomas jefferson wrote that “ all men shall be free to profess , and by argument to maintain , their opinions in matters of religion. ” the first amendment of our constitution established the freedom of religion as the law of the land . and that right has been upheld ever since .
we can choose a future where we export more products and outsource fewer jobs . after a decade that was defined by what we bought and borrowed , we 're getting back to basics and doing what america 's always done best .
we all need to take responsibility . and this includes executives at major financial firms who turned to the american people , hat in hand , when they were in trouble , even as they paid themselves customary lavish bonuses . as i said last week , this is the height of irresponsibility . it 's shameful . and that 's exactly the kind of disregard of the costs and consequences of their actions that brought about this crisis : a culture of narrow self-interest and short-term gain at the expense of everything else .
he updated us on these latest efforts to stop the leak , mitigate the damage to the great beaches of the gulf coast , and i had the chance to visit with -- charlotte -- a beach like port fourchon that gives you a sense of what extraordinary efforts are being made at the local level , but also the damage that we 're already starting to see as a consequence of this spill .
i reject those theories . and so did the american people when they went to the polls in november and voted resoundingly for change . so i urge members of congress to act without delay . no plan is perfect , and we should work to make it stronger . no one is more committed to making it stronger than me . but let 's not make the perfect the enemy of the essential . let 's show people all over the country who are looking for leadership in this difficult time that we are equal to the task .
if we gather together what works , we can extend more ladders of opportunity for anybody who ’ s working to build a strong , middle-class life for themselves . because in america , your destiny shouldn ’ t be determined by where you live , where you were born . it should be determined by how big you ’ re willing to dream , how much effort and sweat and tears you ’ re willing to put in to realizing that dream .
here , i have concerns that we should not set a standard for terrorism investigations that is higher than those involved in investigating an ordinary crime . but i agree that greater oversight on the use of these letters may be appropriate , and i ’ m prepared to work with congress on this issue
we , the people , still believe that every citizen deserves a basic measure of security and dignity . we must make the hard choices to reduce the cost of health care and the size of our deficit . but we reject the belief that america must choose between caring for the generation that built this country and investing in the generation that will build its future . for we remember the lessons of our past , when twilight years were spent in poverty and parents of a child with a disability had nowhere to turn .
thank you . mr. president , mr. secretary general , fellow delegates , ladies and gentlemen : each year we come together to reaffirm the founding vision of this institution . for most of recorded history , individual aspirations were subject to the whims of tyrants and empires . divisions of race and religion and tribe were settled through the sword and the clash of armies . the idea that nations and peoples could come together in peace to solve their disputes and advance a common prosperity seemed unimaginable .
i will not pretend that the challenges we face will be easy , or that the answers will come quickly , or that all our differences and divisions will fade happily away -- because life is not that simple . it never has been . but as you leave here today , remember the lessons of cardinal bernardin , of father hesburgh , of movements for change both large and small . remember that each of us , endowed with the dignity possessed by all children of god , has the grace to recognize ourselves in one another ; to understand that we all seek the same love of family , the same fulfillment of a life well lived . remember that in the end , in some way we are all fishermen .
these principles were at the heart of the deficit framework that i put forward in april . it was an approach to shrink the deficit as a share of the economy , but not to do so so abruptly with spending cuts that would hamper growth or prevent us from helping small businesses and middle-class families get back on their feet .
do n't tell me that we ca n't do better by our children , that we ca n't take more responsibility for making sure we 're instilling in them the values and the ideals that the moses generation taught us about sacrifice and dignity and honesty and hard work and discipline and self-sacrifice .
to help businesses discover , develop , and deploy new materials twice as fast , we ’ re launching what we call the materials genome initiative . the invention of silicon circuits and lithium-ion batteries made computers and ipods and ipads possible -- but it took years to get those technologies from the drawing board to the marketplace . we can do it faster .
and yet , despite resources that are unmatched anywhere in the world , we 've let our grades slip , our schools crumble , our teacher quality fall short , and other nations outpace us . let me give you a few statistics . in 8th grade math , we 've fallen to 9th place . singapore 's middle-schoolers outperform ours three to one . just a third of our 13- and 14-year-olds can read as well as they should . and year after year , a stubborn gap persists between how well white students are doing compared to their african american and latino classmates . the relative decline of american education is untenable for our economy , it 's unsustainable for our democracy , it 's unacceptable for our children -- and we ca n't afford to let it continue .
and i ’ ve launched a national commission so that the american people will have answers on exactly what happened . but we have to acknowledge that there are inherent risks to drilling four miles beneath the surface of the earth , and these are risks -- these are risks that are bound to increase the harder oil extraction becomes .
if you don ’ t have health insurance , then starting on october 1st , private plans will actually compete for your business , and you 'll be able to comparison-shop online . there will be a marketplace online , just like you ’ d buy a flat-screen tv or plane tickets or anything else you 're doing online , and you 'll be able to buy an insurance package that fits your budget and is right for you .
it is the memories that have been passed on to so many of us about the service or sacrifice of a friend or relative . for me , it is my grandfather , stanley dunham , who arrived on this beach six weeks after d-day and marched across europe in patton 's army . and it is my great uncle who was part of the first american division to reach and liberate a nazi concentration camp . his name is charles payne , and i 'm so proud that he 's with us here today .
when the war ended , richard headed home to texas to a nation bitterly divided by race . and his service on the battlefield was not always matched by the respect that he deserved at home . but this veteran held his head high . he carried on and lived his life with honor and dignity . he built his wife a house with his own two hands . he went back to work in the furniture business . in time , he served as a courier in the texas state capitol , where he worked for four governors , and made more friends than most of us do in a lifetime .
in short , i released these memos because there was no overriding reason to protect them . and the ensuing debate has helped the american people better understand how these interrogation methods came to be authorized and used .
that does n't mean that they do n't still have a burden to shoulder , that they do n't have some responsibilities . the previous generation , the moses generation , pointed the way . they took us 90 % of the way there .
and so what we ’ re not going to do is put ourselves in a position where in order to pay for spending that we ’ ve already incurred , that our two options are we ’ re either going to profoundly hurt the economy and hurt middle-class families and hurt seniors and hurt kids who are trying to go to college , or , alternatively , we ’ re going to blow up the economy . we ’ re not going to do that .
meanwhile , the cuban exile community in the united states made enormous contributions to our country -- in politics and business , culture and sports . like immigrants before , cubans helped remake america , even as they felt a painful yearning for the land and families they left behind . all of this bound america and cuba in a unique relationship , at once family and foe .
through education , you can also better yourselves in other ways . you learn how to learn -- how to think critically and find solutions to unexpected challenges . i remember we used to ask our teachers , `` why am i going to need algebra ? '' well , you may not have to solve for x to get a good job or to be a good parent . but you will need to think through tough problems . you 'll need to think on your feet . you 'll need to know how to gather facts and evaluate information . so , math teachers , you can tell your students that the president says they need algebra .
what you ’ re seeing here is the consequence of just a few minutes of this extraordinarily powerful storm sweeping through this community . and as the governor was mentioning , tuscaloosa typically gets a tornado during the season , but this is something that i don ’ t think anybody has seen before .
now , i continue to believe that the best way to solve this problem is by working together to pass that kind of common sense law . but until that happens , there are actions i have the legal authority to take as president -- the same kinds of actions taken by democratic and republican presidents before me -- that will help make our immigration system more fair and more just .
and it is my firm belief that the relationship between the united states and india -- bound by our shared interests and our shared values -- will be one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century . this is the partnership i ’ ve come here to build . this is the vision that our nations can realize together .
mexican americans enrich our communities , including my hometown of chicago , where you can walk through neighborhoods like pilsen , little village -- la villita -- dotted with murals of mexican patriots . you can stop at a fonda , you can hear some mariachis , where we are inspired by the deep faith of our peoples at churches like our lady of guadalupe . we ’ ve got a chicagoan in here somewhere .
along the same lines , i think it would be useful for us to examine some state and local laws to see if it -- if they are designed in such a way that they may encourage the kinds of altercations and confrontations and tragedies that we saw in the florida case , rather than diffuse potential altercations .
but they kept marching . and despite the beatings of that day , they came back , and more returned . and the conscience of a nation was stirred . their efforts bent , in the words of dr. martin luther king , the arc of the moral universe towards justice . and it was their vision for a more fair and just and inclusive and generous society that ultimately triumphed . and the only reason i stand here today as the president of the united states is because those ordinary people -- maids , and janitors , and schoolteachers -- were willing to endure hardship on my behalf .
it ’ s heartbreaking enough that there are millions of working families in this country who are now forced to take their children to food banks for a decent meal . but the idea that those children might not have a chance to climb out of that situation and back into the middle class , no matter how hard they work ? that ’ s inexcusable . it is wrong . it flies in the face of everything that we stand for .
now , even as health care reform would reduce our deficit , it 's not enough to dig us out of a massive fiscal hole in which we find ourselves . it 's a challenge that makes all others that much harder to solve , and one that 's been subject to a lot of political posturing . so let me start the discussion of government spending by setting the record straight .
it is not true . in fact , the system as it stands -- the system as it stands is what led to a series of massive , costly taxpayer bailouts . and it ’ s only with reform that we can avoid a similar outcome in the future .
more fundamentally , the presence of so many illegal immigrants makes a mockery of all those who are going through the process of immigrating legally . indeed , after years of patchwork fixes and ill-conceived revisions , the legal immigration system is as broken as the borders .
because of a diplomatic effort to insist that iran meet its obligations , the iranian government now faces tougher sanctions , tighter sanctions than ever before . and on the korean peninsula , we stand with our ally south korea , and insist that north korea keeps its commitment to abandon nuclear weapons .
and here ’ s what we know -- that any single gun law can ’ t solve all these problems . we ’ re going to have to look at mental health issues . we ’ re going to have to look at schools .
a faith that lets us mount up on wings like eagles ; lets us run and not be weary ; lets us walk and not faint so let us hold fast to that faith , as joshua held fast to the faith of his fathers , and together , we shall overcome the challenges of a new age . together , we shall seize the promise of this moment . together , we shall make a way through winter , and we 're going to welcome the spring . through god all things are possible .
upon taking office , i appointed a special envoy for middle east peace , and america has worked steadily and aggressively to advance the cause of two states -- israel and palestine -- in which peace and security take root , and the rights of both israelis and palestinians are respected .
the good news is , already , we 've seen americans come together -- in small towns and big cities all across the country -- to honor your service in iraq . and tonight , on behalf of michelle and myself , on behalf of over 300 americans -- 300 million americans , we want to express those simple words that we can never say enough , and that 's thank you .
full recovery will not happen immediately . and to make the investments we need , we ’ ll have to scour our federal budget , line by line , and make meaningful cuts and sacrifices , as well , something i ’ ll be discussing further tomorrow
it 's within your power to bring about change . whether you are a good neighbor to someone from the other side of past battles -- that ’ s up to you . whether you treat them with the dignity and respect they deserve -- that ’ s up to you .
so i ’ ve told speaker boehner that even as i take those steps that i can within my existing legal authorities to make the immigration system work better , i ’ m going to continue to reach out to house republicans in the hope that they deliver a more permanent solution with a comprehensive bill .
if you start losing that approach and suddenly conflicts arise and claims are made based on how big the country is or how powerful its navy is instead of based on law , then i think asia will be less prosperous and the pacific region will be less prosperous . and that ’ s why we ’ ve said directly to china and to other claimant countries , we don ’ t have a claim to these areas . we ’ re not parties in the dispute . but we do have a stake in making sure that they are resolved peacefully , diplomatically , and in accordance with internationally established standards .
now , there ’ s politics and political pressure inside of the united states . we all know that . the prime minister of israel is deeply opposed to it . i think he ’ s made that very clear . i have repeatedly asked , what is the alternative that you present that you think makes it less likely for iran to get a nuclear weapon , and i have yet to obtain a good answer on that that .
what if no matter where you worked or how many times you switched jobs , you had health care and a pension that stayed with you always , so you all had the flexibility to move to a better job or start a new business ? what if instead of cutting budgets for research and development and science , we fueled the genius and the innovation that will lead to the new jobs and new industries of the future ?
hope is what i heard in the voice of the new hampshire woman who told me that she has n't been able to breathe since her nephew left for iraq -- who still goes to bed each night praying for his safe return .
but my grandfather had larger dreams for his son . through hard work and perseverance my father got a scholarship to study in a magical place , america , that shone as a beacon of freedom and opportunity to so many who had come before .
after four great contests in every corner of this country , we have the most votes , the most delegates -- and the most diverse coalition of americans that we 've seen in a long , long time .
so understand this , south carolina . the choice in this election is not between regions or religions or genders . it 's not about rich versus poor , young versus old , and it is not about black versus white .
thank you very much , everybody . mr. speaker , mr. vice president , members of congress , my fellow americans : we are 15 years into this new century . fifteen years that dawned with terror touching our shores ; that unfolded with a new generation fighting two long and costly wars ; that saw a vicious recession spread across our nation and the world . it has been , and still is , a hard time for many .
as harry truman understood , israel ’ s story is one of hope . we may not agree on every single issue -- no two nations do , and our democracies contain a vibrant diversity of views . but we agree on the big things -- the things that matter . and together , we are working to build a better world -- one where our people can live free from fear ; one where peace is founded upon justice ; one where our children can know a future that is more hopeful than the present .
but i ’ ve still got a lot of work to do . so maybe in 18 months , i ’ ll check back with you and i ’ ll let you know . all right . gentleman right here with the sash .
we may not know the full impact of this republican shutdown for some time . it will depend on how long it lasts . but we do know a couple of things . we know that the last time republicans shut down the government in 1996 , it hurt our economy . and unlike 1996 , our economy is still recovering from the worst recession in generations .
and so my hope is , is that the speaker and his caucus , in conjunction with the other legislative leaders up there , can find a way to make sure that middle-class families don ’ t see their taxes go up on january 1st ; that we make sure that those things that middle-class families count on like tax credits for college , or making sure that they ’ re getting some help when it comes to raising their kids through things like the child tax credit , that that gets done ; and that we have a balanced package for deficit reduction , which is exactly what i ’ ve put forward .
america has also embraced unique responsibilities with come -- that come with our power . since the rains came and the floodwaters rose in pakistan , we have pledged our assistance , and we should all support the pakistani people as they recover and rebuild . and when the earth shook and haiti was devastated by loss , we joined a coalition of nations in response . today , we honor those from the u.n. family who lost their lives in the earthquake , and commit ourselves to stand with the people of haiti until they can stand on their own two feet .
but you and i know this is a false choice . we have to fix our economy . we need to close our deficits . but for pennies on the dollar , the space program has fueled jobs and entire industries .
the american jobs act will repair and modernize at least 35,000 schools . it will put people to work right now fixing roofs and windows , installing science labs and high-speed internet in classrooms all across this country .
now , make no mistake , our nation is still threatened by terrorists . from benghazi to boston , we have been tragically reminded of that truth . but we have to recognize that the threat has shifted and evolved from the one that came to our shores on 9/11 . with a decade of experience now to draw from , this is the moment to ask ourselves hard questions -- about the nature of today ’ s threats and how we should confront them .
thank you for your partnership . with that , i ’ m going to sign this executive order . thank you . thank you so much . everybody , please have a seat . well , thank you , lisa , for the introduction . lisa is an example of the countless dedicated public servants across our government , a number of who are here today , who are working tirelessly every single day on behalf of the security and safety of the american people . so we very much appreciate her . and thanks to all of you for your attendance and participation in this important summit .
in the wake of such destruction , and with the advent of the nuclear age , it became clear to victor and vanquished alike that the world needed institutions to prevent another world war . and so a quarter century after the united states senate rejected the league of nations -- an idea for which woodrow wilson received this prize -- america led the world in constructing an architecture to keep the peace : a marshall plan , and a united nations ; mechanisms to govern the waging of war , treaties to protect human rights , prevent genocide , restrict the most dangerous weapons .
peace with justice means extending a hand to those who reach for freedom , wherever they live . different peoples and cultures will follow their own path , but we must reject the lie that those who live in distant places don ’ t yearn for freedom and self-determination just like we do ; that they don ’ t somehow yearn for dignity and rule of law just like we do . we can not dictate the pace of change in places like the arab world , but we must reject the excuse that we can do nothing to support it .
his values and his record affirm what is best in us . john kerry believes in an america where hard work is rewarded ; so instead of offering tax breaks to companies shipping jobs overseas , he offers them to companies creating jobs here at home .
in the end , the economic crisis of the past year was not just the result of weaknesses in our economy . it was also the result of weaknesses in our political system , because for decades , too many in washington put off the hard decisions . for decades , we 've watched as efforts to solve tough problems have fallen prey to the bitterness of partisanship , to prosaic concerns of politics , to ever-quickening news cycles , to endless campaigns focused on scoring points instead of meeting our common challenges .
despite all this , the insurance companies and their allies do n't like this idea . they argue that these private companies ca n't fairly compete with the government . and they 'd be right if taxpayers were subsidizing this public insurance option .
question : thank you , mr. president . president obama : happy birthday . question : back to health care . can you guarantee for the american people that the health care website is going to be fully operational for all people , not just the vast majority , by november 30 ? and second , more broadly , this is your signature domestic piece of legislation . you hear criticism on the hill that you and your white house team are too insular . is that how this mess came to be ?
and i think it says a great deal about the path that elena has chosen . someone as gifted as elena could easily have settled into a comfortable life in a corporate law practice . instead , she chose a life of service -- service to her students , service to her country , service to the law and to all those whose lives it shapes .
so humility i think is needed . and the second thing we need is to uphold the distinction between our faith and our governments : between church and between state . the united states is one of the most religious countries in the world -- far more religious than most western developed countries .
for too long , some of us have seen immigrants only as competitors for jobs instead of companions in the fight for opportunity . everyday our politics fuels and exploits this kind of division across all races and regions , across gender and party .
now , i know at this point many of you are expecting me to go after my likely opponent , newt gingrich . newt , there 's still time , man . but i 'm not going to do that -- i 'm not going to attack any of the republican candidates . take mitt romney -- he and i actually have a lot in common . we both think of our wives as our better halves , and polls show , to a alarmingly insulting extent , the american people agree . we also both have degrees from harvard ; i have one , he has two . what a snob .
and that last part , high-speed wireless , is why i chose to come to northern michigan university today . now let me give you some context . today , more than 90 percent of homes in south korea subscribe to high-speed broadband .
that ’ s why i ’ m asking you to stand with me , that ’ s why i ’ m asking you to caucus for me , that ’ s why i am asking you to stop settling for what the cynics say we have to accept .
but make no mistake : bp is operating at our direction . every key decision and action they take must be approved by us in advance . i ’ ve designated admiral thad allen -- who has nearly four decades of experience responding to such disasters -- as the national incident commander , and if he orders bp to do something to respond to this disaster , they are legally bound to do it . so , for example , when they said they would drill one relief well to stem this leak we demanded a backup and ordered them to drill two . and they are in the process of drilling two .
her only possessions were a cross , her doll , and the frilly dress she had on . when she started school , she didn ’ t speak any english . she caught up to other kids by reading newspapers and watching pbs , and she became a good student .
may god bless the memory of the victims and , in the words of [ scripture ] , heal the brokenhearted and bind up their wounds . thank you . well , good afternoon , everybody . now that those of us on the campaign trail have had a chance to get a little sleep -- it ’ s time to get back to work . and there is plenty of work to do .
so i was n't always as focused as i should have been on school , and i did some things i 'm not proud of , and i got in more trouble than i should have . and my life could have easily taken a turn for the worse .
i know there ’ s a lot of talk right now about border security , so let me repeat -- today , illegal crossings are near their lowest level in decades . and if passed , the senate bill as currently written and as hitting the floor would put in place the toughest border enforcement plan that america has ever seen . so nobody is taking border enforcement lightly . that ’ s part of this bill .
and there ’ s one last pillar of our leadership , and that ’ s the example of our values . as americans , we respect human dignity , even when we ’ re threatened , which is why i have prohibited torture , and worked to make sure our use of new technology like drones is properly constrained . it ’ s why we speak out against the deplorable anti-semitism that has resurfaced in certain parts of the world . it ’ s why we continue to reject offensive stereotypes of muslims , the vast majority of whom share our commitment to peace . that ’ s why we defend free speech , and advocate for political prisoners , and condemn the persecution of women , or religious minorities , or people who are lesbian , gay , bisexual or transgender . we do these things not only because they are the right thing to do , but because ultimately they will make us safer .
and that ’ s why this has been such a priority for me . i take it personally because when i look out at all of you , i see myself . and i remember the fact that it took me 10 years to pay off all our student loans . we were paying more for our student loans than our mortgage , even after malia and sasha were born . we were supposed to be saving for their college education ; we were still paying off ours .
it will take four years to implement fully many of these reforms , because we need to implement them responsibly . we need to get this right . but a host of desperately needed reforms will take effect right away .
the quiet determination ; that strength of character and bond of fellowship ; that refutation of fear -- that is both our sword and our shield . and long after the current messengers of hate have faded from the world ’ s memory , alongside the brutal despots , and deranged madmen , and ruthless demagogues who litter history -- the flag of the united states will still wave from small-town cemeteries to national monuments , to distant outposts abroad . and that flag will still stand for freedom .
now , the reason i came here today , in addition to seeing just some incredible stuff -- it ’ s true , every time i come to these places , i do n't know how you all do it . it is just amazing work . but the main reason i 'm here is to call attention to the important work that you ’ re doing on behalf of the nation ’ s defense , and to let the american people know that this work , along with hundreds of thousands of jobs , are currently in jeopardy because of politics in washington .
let there be no doubt : america is determined to prevent iran from getting a nuclear weapon , and i will take no options off the table to achieve that goal . but a peaceful resolution of this issue is still possible , and far better , and if iran changes course and meets its obligations , it can rejoin the community of nations .
through a combination of action by the courts , increased congressional oversight , and adjustments by the previous administration , some of the worst excesses that emerged after 9/11 were curbed by the time i took office . but a variety of factors have continued to complicate america ’ s efforts to both defend our nation and uphold our civil liberties .
for all these reasons , i maintained a healthy skepticism toward our surveillance programs after i became president . i ordered that our programs be reviewed by my national security team and our lawyers , and in some cases i ordered changes in how we did business . we increased oversight and auditing , including new structures aimed at compliance . improved rules were proposed by the government and approved by the foreign intelligence surveillance court . and we sought to keep congress continually updated on these activities .
these journalists and so many others view their work as more than just a profession , but as a public good ; an indispensable pillar of our society . so i want to give a toast to them . i raise a glass to them and all of you , with the words of the american foreign correspondent dorothy thompson : `` it is not the fact of liberty , but the way in which liberty is exercised , that ultimately determines whether liberty itself survives . ''
i know there ’ s no straight line to that progress , no single path to success . we come from different cultures , and carry with us different histories . but let us never forget that even as we gather here as heads of different governments , we represent citizens who share the same basic aspirations -- to live with dignity and freedom ; to get an education and pursue opportunity ; to love our families , and love and worship our god ; to live in the kind of peace that makes life worth living .
that is a lesson embedded in the three great faiths that call one small slice of earth the holy land . and that is why , even though there will be setbacks and false starts and tough days , i will not waver in my pursuit of peace
for over two years , my administration has worked with the parties and the international community to end this conflict , building on decades of work by previous administrations . yet expectations have gone unmet . israeli settlement activity continues . palestinians have walked away from talks . the world looks at a conflict that has grinded on and on and on , and sees nothing but stalemate . indeed , there are those who argue that with all the change and uncertainty in the region , it is simply not possible to move forward now .
and today , on this day , more than 40 years later , i took my daughters to the kennedy space center . and even though we didn ’ t get to see the space shuttle endeavour launch , we met some of the astronauts , and we toured the space shuttle atlantis . and looking at my daughters , i thought of how things come full circle . i thought of all that we ’ ve achieved as a nation since i was their age , a little brown boy sitting on my grandfather ’ s shoulders -- and i thought about all i want us to achieve by the time they have children of their own .
my job , as president , is to advocate for policies that generate more opportunity for everybody -- policies that strengthen the middle class and give more people the chance to climb their way into the middle class . policies that create more good jobs and reduce poverty , and educate more children , and give more families the security of health care , and protect more of our children from the horrors of gun violence . that 's my job . those are matters of public policy , and it is important for all of us -- black , white and brown -- to advocate for an america where everybody has got a fair shot in life . not just some . not just a few .
we ’ re the immigrants who stowed away on ships to reach these shores , the huddled masses yearning to breathe free -- holocaust survivors , soviet defectors , the lost boys of sudan . we ’ re the hopeful strivers who cross the rio grande because we want our kids to know a better life . that ’ s how we came to be .
as i ’ ve said before , i ’ m convinced that the united states should not get dragged back into another prolonged ground war in the middle east . that ’ s not in our national security interest and it ’ s not necessary for us to defeat isil . local forces on the ground who know their countries best are best positioned to take the ground fight to isil -- and that ’ s what they ’ re doing .
ultimately , this is the international community that america seeks -- one where nations do not covet the land or resources of other nations , but one in which we carry out the founding purpose of this institution and where we all take responsibility . a world in which the rules established out of the horrors of war can help us resolve conflicts peacefully , and prevent the kinds of wars that our forefathers fought . a world where human beings can live with dignity and meet their basic needs , whether they live in new york or nairobi ; in peshawar or damascus .
our federal government also has to step up its efforts to advance the cause of healthy living . five of the costliest illnesses and conditions -- cancer , cardiovascular disease , diabetes , lung disease , and strokes -- can be prevented . and yet only a fraction of every health care dollar goes to prevention or public health . and that 's starting to change with an investment we 're making in prevention and wellness programs that can help us avoid disease that harm our health and the health of our economy .
and i know that dr. benjamin is going to help us get there as the next surgeon general . and i am truly honored to nominate her for that post , and secretary sebelius is equally excited , even though she 's just standing here .
now , some have suggested that this represents a reversal on my part . they should look at the record . in 2006 , i did strongly oppose legislation proposed by the bush administration and passed by the congress because it failed to establish a legitimate legal framework , with the kind of meaningful due process rights for the accused that could stand up on appeal .
we ’ re going to modernize the kennedy space center , creating jobs as we upgrade launch facilities . and there ’ s potential for even more jobs as companies in florida and across america compete to be part of a new space transportation industry . and some of those industry leaders are here today . this holds the promise of generating more than 10,000 jobs nationwide over the next few years . and many of these jobs will be created right here in florida because this is an area primed to lead in this competition .
i 'll eliminate capital gains taxes for the small businesses and start-ups that will create the high-wage , high-tech jobs of tomorrow . i will -- listen now -- i will cut taxes -- cut taxes -- for 95 percent of all working families , because , in an economy like this , the last thing we should do is raise taxes on the middle class .
to the people of santiago , to the people of chile , thank you so much for your wonderful welcome . and on behalf of the people of the united states , let me thank you for your friendship and the strong bonds between our people .
and that is a good place as any to begin so i offer you my thanks , i offer you my support , and i look forward to working with you and answering to you and the american people as we seek a more perfect union in the months and years ahead .
in the coming weeks , i will use whatever power this office holds to engage my fellow citizens -- from law enforcement to mental health professionals to parents and educators -- in an effort aimed at preventing more tragedies like this . because what choice do we have ? we can ’ t accept events like this as routine . are we really prepared to say that we ’ re powerless in the face of such carnage , that the politics are too hard ? are we prepared to say that such violence visited on our children year after year after year is somehow the price of our freedom ?
that ’ s the spirit that ’ s given us the tools and toughness to overcome every obstacle and adapt to every circumstance . and if we remember that spirit , if we combine our creativity , our innovation , and our optimism , if we come together in common cause , as we 've done so many times before , then we will thrive again . we will get to where we need to be . and we will make this century the american century just like the last one was .
i am proud to be with you at this first-ever official gathering of civil society leaders at the summit of the americas . and i ’ m pleased to have cuba represented with us at this summit for the very first time .
today , i 'm directing a series of additional corrective steps across multiple agencies . broadly speaking , they fall into four areas . first , i 'm directing that our intelligence community immediately begin assigning specific responsibility for investigating all leads on high-priority threats so that these leads are pursued and acted upon aggressively -- not just most of the time , but all of the time . we must follow the leads that we get . and we must pursue them until plots are disrupted . and that mean assigning clear lines of responsibility .
to edith , to the fellow commissioners , to all of you who work at the ftc -- thanks for welcoming me . i ’ m told i may be the first president to come to the ftc in nearly 80 years , since fdr in -- first time apparently since fdr in 1937 , which is a little surprising . i mean , you ’ d think like one of the presidents would just come here by accident . they ended up in the wrong building , we 're already at the ftc .
when our government is spoken of as some menacing , threatening foreign entity , it ignores the fact that in our democracy , government is us . we , the people -- we , the people , hold in our hands the power to choose our leaders and change our laws , and shape our own destiny .
and if enough of our voices join together , if we see each other in each other ’ s eyes , we can bring those walls tumbling down . the walls of jericho can finally come tumbling down
this is the story ryan wants us to remember -- soldiers who loved each other like brothers and who fought for each other , and families who have made a sacrifice that our nation must never forget . ryan says , `` i think we owe it to them to live lives worthy of their sacrifice . '' and he ’ s absolutely right .
the process for restructuring aig and the auto companies will involve difficult and sometimes unpopular choices ; we are not finished yet on that front . and all of this means that there 's much more work to be done .
and finally , i would note that the end of war in iraq reflects a larger transition . the tide of war is receding . the drawdown in iraq allowed us to refocus our fight against al qaeda and achieve major victories against its leadership -- including osama bin laden . now , even as we remove our last troops from iraq , we ’ re beginning to bring our troops home from afghanistan , where we ’ ve begun a transition to afghan security [ and ] leadership . when i took office , roughly 180,000 troops were deployed in both these wars . and by the end of this year that number will be cut in half , and make no mistake : it will continue to go down .
when it comes to the deficit , we ’ ve already agreed to more than 2 trillion dollars in cuts and savings . but we need to do more , and that means making choices . right now , we ’ re poised to spend nearly 1 trillion dollars more on what was supposed to be a temporary tax break for the wealthiest 2 percent of americans . right now , because of loopholes and shelters in the tax code , a quarter of all millionaires pay lower tax rates than millions of middle-class households . right now , warren buffett pays a lower tax rate than his secretary .
now , despite all that we agree on and all the republican ideas we 've incorporated , many -- probably most -- republicans in congress just have a fundamental disagreement over whether we should have more or less oversight of insurance companies . and if they truly believe that less regulation would lead to higher quality , more affordable health insurance , then they should vote against the proposal i 've put forward .
the jewish people have forged a successful state in their historic homeland . israel deserves recognition . it deserves normal relations with its neighbors . and friends of the palestinians do them no favors by ignoring this truth , just as friends of israel must recognize the need to pursue a two-state solution with a secure israel next to an independent palestine .
so these initiatives are a good start . but ultimately , we know that the decision to be a good father -- that ’ s up to us , each of us , as individuals . it ’ s one that men across this country are making every single day -- attending those school assemblies ; parent-teacher conferences ; coaching soccer , little league ; scrimping and saving , and working that extra shift so that their children can go to college . and plenty of fathers -- and men who aren ’ t fathers as well -- are stepping up to serve as mentors and tutors and big brothers and foster parents to young people who don ’ t have any responsible adult in their lives .
the same faith that breaks the silence of an earthquake 's wake with the sound of prayers and hymns sung by a haitian community . a faith in things not seen , in better days ahead , in him who holds the future in the hollow of his hand .
we can afford this . '' and john eventually predicted that `` the website will work like a champ . so john , he was frustrated by the website , but he 's feeling a little less frustrated once he found out that he was saving 900 bucks a month on his health insurance . and john is right , the website is going to get fixed and the law works .
one of the great ironies of what ’ s happening in the broader region is that so much of what people are yearning for -- education , entrepreneurship , the ability to start a business without paying a bribe , the ability to connect to the global economy -- those are things that can be found here in israel . this should be a hub for thriving regional trade , and an engine for opportunity .
last question . karen deyoung . where ’ s karen ? there she is . question : thank you . just to belabor the point on that question , mr. president , your people have said that the framework agreement , that what ’ s in it stands , that they are not renegotiable points , although the implementation of them can be renegotiated in some way . and i wonder how , within that framework that ’ s already been agreed , how we can come up with something that satisfies the kinds of concerns that he raised -- no inspection of military sites , immediate lifting of all sanctions the day that the thing is signed .
number two , i said that we can not help banks on wall street without helping the millions of innocent homeowners who are struggling to stay in their homes . they deserve a plan , too .
we will never erase the evil that lies in the hearts of some human beings , nor stamp out every danger to our open society . but what we can do -- what we must do -- is dismantle networks that pose a direct danger to us , and make it less likely for new groups to gain a foothold , all the while maintaining the freedoms and ideals that we defend .
the torah says `` love thy neighbor as yourself . '' in islam , there is a hadith that states : `` none of you truly believes until he loves for his brother what he loves for himself .
i 've made it clear that the united states respects the sovereignty of the islamic republic of iran , and is not interfering with iran 's affairs . but we must also bear witness to the courage and the dignity of the iranian people , and to a remarkable opening within iranian society . and we deplore the violence against innocent civilians anywhere that it takes place .
and there ’ s another way we can honor those who serve . it may no longer be a crime for con artists to pass themselves off as heroes , but one thing is certain -- it is contemptible . so this week , we will launch a new website , a living memorial , so the american people can see who ’ s been awarded our nation ’ s highest honors . because no american hero should ever have their valor stolen .
now , in the past few days i 've heard criticisms that this plan is somehow wanting , and these criticisms echo the very same failed economic theories that led us into this crisis in the first place -- the notion that tax cuts alone will solve all our problems ; that we can ignore fundamental challenges like energy independence and the high cost of health care ; that we can somehow deal with this in a piecemeal fashion and still expect our economy and our country to thrive .
this is a matter , as well , of america 's economic competitiveness . the small businesswoman in st. louis , the bond trader in the new york stock exchange , the workers at a global shipping company in memphis , the young entrepreneur in silicon valley -- they all need the networks to make the next payroll , the next trade , the next delivery , the next great breakthrough . e-commerce alone last year accounted for some 132 billion dollars in retail sales .
this has been my third summit of the americas and my eighth visit to latin america . and my trip reflects , as i mentioned earlier , a new era of u.s. engagement in the region . over the past few days we ’ ve advanced our engagement across the board .
today , we ’ re also working for a transition so the syrian people can have a better future , free of the assad regime . and given the regime ’ s stockpiles of chemical weapons , we will continue to make it clear to assad and those around him that the world is watching , and that they will be held accountable by the international community and the united states , should they make the tragic mistake of using those weapons . and we will continue to work with our friends and our allies and the syrian opposition on behalf of the day when the syrian people have a government that respects their basic rights to live in peace and freedom and dignity .
so , with that , let me take some questions . i 'll start with jim kuhnhenn . question : thank you , mr. president . sir , you head back to the united states with the task of convincing the american people and congress on two major foreign policy initiatives -- the framework for a nuclear deal with iran , and likely soon , the decision to remove cuba from a list of state sponsors of terror .
as president -- as president , i will tap our natural gas reserves , invest in clean coal technology , and find ways to safely harness nuclear power . i 'll help our auto companies re-tool , so that the fuel-efficient cars of the future are built right here in america . i 'll make it easier for the american people to afford these new cars . and i 'll invest 150 billion dollars over the next decade in affordable , renewable sources of energy -- wind power , and solar power , and the next generation of biofuels -- an investment that will lead to new industries and five million new jobs that pay well and ca n't be outsourced .
and i will tell you , class of 2013 , whatever success i have achieved , whatever positions of leadership i have held have depended less on ivy league degrees or sat scores or gpas , and have instead been due to that sense of connection and empathy -- the special obligation i felt , as a black man like you , to help those who need it most , people who didn ’ t have the opportunities that i had -- because there but for the grace of god , go i -- i might have been in their shoes . i might have been in prison . i might have been unemployed . i might not have been able to support a family . and that motivates me .
now , our opposition to iran ’ s intolerance and iran ’ s repressive measures , as well as its illicit nuclear program and its support of terror , is well known . but if america is to be credible , we must acknowledge that at times our friends in the region have not all reacted to the demands for consistent change -- with change that ’ s consistent with the principles that i ’ ve outlined today . that ’ s true in yemen , where president saleh needs to follow through on his commitment to transfer power . and that ’ s true today in bahrain .
today our prayers are with the campbell family of medford . they 're here today . their daughter , krystle , was always smiling . those who knew her said that with her red hair and her freckles and her ever-eager willingness to speak her mind , she was beautiful , sometimes she could be a little noisy , and everybody loved her for it . she would have turned 30 next month . as her mother said through her tears , “ this doesn ’ t make any sense . ”
yesterday , the federal government gave bp approval to move forward with a procedure known as a “ top kill ” to try to stop the leak . this involves plugging the well with densely packed mud to prevent any more oil from escaping . and given the complexity of this procedure and the depth of the leak , this procedure offers no guarantee of success . but we ’ re exploring any reasonable strategies to try and save the gulf from a spill that may otherwise last until the relief wells are finished -- and that 's a process that could take months .
third , we are taking steps to increase travel , commerce , and the flow of information to and from cuba . this is fundamentally about freedom and openness , and also expresses my belief in the power of people-to-people engagement . with the changes i ’ m announcing today , it will be easier for americans to travel to cuba , and americans will be able to use american credit and debit cards on the island . nobody represents america ’ s values better than the american people , and i believe this contact will ultimately do more to empower the cuban people .
now , like any of us , he was not a perfect man . his experiences in rural texas may have stretched his moral imagination , but he was ambitious , very ambitious , a young man in a hurry to plot his own escape from poverty and to chart his own political career . and in the jim crow south , that meant not challenging convention . during his first 20 years in congress , he opposed every civil rights bill that came up for a vote , once calling the push for federal legislation “ a farce and a sham. ” he was chosen as a vice presidential nominee in part because of his affinity with , and ability to deliver , that southern white vote . and at the beginning of the kennedy administration , he shared with president kennedy a caution towards racial controversy .
so when i hear about servicemembers and veterans who had the courage to seek help but didn ’ t get it , who died waiting , that 's an outrage . and i ’ ve told secretary panetta , chairman dempsey and secretary shinseki we ’ ve got to do better . this has to be all hands on deck .
but look around you . look at the person standing next to you . you look around and you see the strength and resilience that will carry us through . you look at this installation and the forts that have stood watch over this bay and its people for centuries -- through the rise and fall of empires , through a terrible civil war -- and as a nation healed itself , we became a beacon to the world . we ’ ve endured .
in my inaugural address i said that our patchwork heritage is a strength , not a weakness . we are a nation of christians and muslims , jews and hindus -- and non-believers . we are shaped by every language and every culture , drawn from every end of this earth . and that diversity can bring difficult debates . this is not unique to our time . past eras have seen controversies about the construction of synagogues or catholic churches . but time and again , the american people have demonstrated that we can work through these issues , and stay true to our core values , and emerge stronger for it . so it must be -- and will be -- today .
it 's no secret there is a tendency in washington to spend our time pointing fingers at one another . and it 's no secret that our media culture feeds the impulse that lead to a good fight and good copy . but nothing will contribute more than that than a extended relitigation of the last eight years . already , we 've seen how that kind of effort only leads those in washington to different sides to laying blame . it can distract us from focusing our time , our efforts , and our politics on the challenges of the future .
now , yesterday the senate blocked a bill that would have created this commission . so i 'll issue an executive order that will allow us to go forward , because i refuse to pass this problem on to another generation of americans . and when the vote comes tomorrow , the senate should restore the pay-as-you-go law that was a big reason for why we had record surpluses in the 1990s .
that 's why america is committed to stopping nuclear proliferation , and ultimately seeking a world without nuclear weapons . that is consistent with our commitment under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty . that is our responsibility as the world 's two leading nuclear powers . and while i know this goal wo n't be met soon , pursuing it provides the legal and moral foundation to prevent the proliferation and eventual use of nuclear weapons .
that is the message of the indonesians who have advanced this democratic story -- from those who fought in the battle of surabaya 55 years ago today ; to the students who marched peacefully for democracy in the 1990s ; to leaders who have embraced the peaceful transition of power in this young century . because ultimately , it will be the rights of citizens that will stitch together this remarkable nusantara that stretches from sabang to merauke , an insistence -- an insistence that every child born in this country should be treated equally , whether they come from java or aceh ; from bali or papua . that all indonesians have equal rights .
and despite this region ’ s democratic progress , stark inequalities endure . in political and economic power that is too often concentrated in the hands of the few , instead of serving the many . in the corruption that too often still stifles economic growth and development , innovation and entrepreneurship . and in some leaders who cling to bankrupt ideologies to justify their own power and who seek to silence their opponents because those opponents have the audacity to demand their universal rights . these , too , are realities that we must face .
and that ’ s why it is so important that you know that the entire country stands behind you . that ’ s why you put on that uniform , because in an uncertain world , the united states of america will always stand up for the security of nations and the dignity of human beings . that ’ s who we are . that is what we do .
make no mistake -- credit for the liberation of libya belongs to the people of libya . it was libyan men and women -- and children -- who took to the streets in peaceful protest , who faced down the tanks and endured the snipers ’ bullets . it was libyan fighters , often outgunned and outnumbered , who fought pitched battles , town-by-town , block-by-block . it was libyan activists -- in the underground , in chat rooms , in mosques -- who kept a revolution alive , even after some of the world had given up hope .
but every day we see waves of cyber thieves trolling for sensitive information -- the disgruntled employee on the inside , the lone hacker a thousand miles away , organized crime , the industrial spy and , increasingly , foreign intelligence services . in one brazen act last year , thieves used stolen credit card information to steal millions of dollars from 130 atm machines in 49 cities around the world -- and they did it in just 30 minutes .
we know this is no ordinary time for our people . each of us comes here with our own problems and priorities . but there are also challenges that we share in common as leaders and as nations .
and for those of you who are wondering what that means , the thing that ’ s been holding back electric vehicles is the battery that stores that electricity , that energy . and the more efficient , the more lightweight we can make those batteries , the easier it is to manufacture those cars at a competitive price .
and that 's why , shortly after the attempted bombing over detroit , i ordered two reviews . i directed secretary of homeland security janet napolitano to review aviation screening , technology and procedures . she briefed me on her initial findings today , and i 'm pleased that this review is drawing on the best science and technology , including the expertise of secretary of energy steven chu and his department .
like other countries that emerged from colonial rule in the last century , indonesia struggled and sacrificed for the right to determine your destiny . that is what heroes day is all about -- an indonesia that belongs to indonesians . but you also ultimately decided that freedom can not mean replacing the strong hand of a colonizer with a strongman of your own .
at the rosa parks library in pretoria , i was struck by the energy of students who -- they wanted to capture this moment of promise for south africa and this is a moment of great promise . south africa is one of the world ’ s economic centers . obviously , you can see it here in cape town . in the country that saw the first human heart transplant , new breakthroughs are being made in the treatment of hiv/aids .
that 's why we took swift action in the immediate days following christmas , including reviewing and updating the terrorist watchlist system and adding more individuals to the `` no fly '' list , and directing our embassies and consulates to include current visa information in their warnings of individuals with terrorist or suspected terrorist ties .
now , in the white community , the path to a more perfect union means acknowledging that what ails the african-american community does not just exist in the minds of black people ; that the legacy of discrimination -- and current incidents of discrimination , while less overt than in the past -- that these things are real and must be addressed .
of course , huge challenges remain . this is the beginning -- but not the end –- of our effort to wind down this war . we ’ ll have to do the hard work of keeping the gains that we ’ ve made , while we draw down our forces and transition responsibility for security to the afghan government . and next may , in chicago , we will host a summit with our nato allies and partners to shape the next phase of this transition .
on the other hand , i also talked to a hunter last week who said , all my experiences with guns have been positive , but i also realize that for others , all their experiences with guns have been negative .
so it is false to assert that putting boots on the ground is less likely to result in civilian deaths or less likely to create enemies in the muslim world . the results would be more u.s. deaths , more black hawks down , more confrontations with local populations , and an inevitable mission creep in support of such raids that could easily escalate into new wars .
for us here in the united states , we are reminded today of all those americans that we lost at the hands of qaddafi ’ s terror . their families and friends are in our thoughts and in our prayers . we recall their bright smiles , their extraordinary lives , and their tragic deaths . we know that nothing can close the wound of their loss , but we stand together as one nation by their side .
and that ’ s why , tonight , for the first time ever , congregations around the world are celebrating a solidarity shabbat . it ’ s a chance for leaders to publicly stand against anti-semitism and bigotry in all of its forms .
so while we were in moneygall , i had a chance to meet my eighth cousin , henry -- who ’ s also known as henry the eighth . we knew he was my cousin because his ears flapped out just like mine . i leafed through the parish logs where the names of my ancestors are recorded . i even watched michelle learn how to pull a proper pint of “ black . ”
after 2014 , we will support a unified afghanistan as it takes responsibility for its own future . if the afghan government signs a security agreement that we have negotiated , a small force of americans could remain in afghanistan with nato allies to carry out two narrow missions : training and assisting afghan forces , and counterterrorism operations to pursue any remnants of al qaeda . for while our relationship with afghanistan will change , one thing will not : our resolve that terrorists do not launch attacks against our country .
that ’ s why businesses must be held accountable if they break the law by deliberately hiring and exploiting undocumented workers . we ’ ve already begun to step up enforcement against the worst workplace offenders . and we ’ re implementing and improving a system to give employers a reliable way to verify that their employees are here legally . but we need to do more . we can not continue just to look the other way as a significant portion of our economy operates outside the law . it breeds abuse and bad practices . it punishes employers who act responsibly and undercuts american workers . and ultimately , if the demand for undocumented workers falls , the incentive for people to come here illegally will decline as well .
now , because medicare is such a big part of the health care system , making the program more efficient can help usher in changes in the way we deliver health care that can reduce costs for everybody . we have long known that some places -- like the intermountain healthcare in utah or the geisinger health system in rural pennsylvania -- offer high-quality care at costs below average . so the commission can help encourage the adoption of these common-sense best practices by doctors and medical professionals throughout the system -- everything from reducing hospital infection rates to encouraging better coordination between teams of doctors .
these are the indicators of crisis , subject to data and statistics . less measurable , but no less profound , is a sapping of confidence across our land -- a nagging fear that america 's decline is inevitable , that the next generation must lower its sights .
to this crucial work of restoring america ’ s international standing , bill will bring a leadership style all his own . bill has never been content to just learn from briefing books , never satisfied with only the official version of the story . during his time in congress , he held more than two -- 2,500 town-hall meetings , so he could hear directly from constituents . he was a regular in the u.n. cafeteria , mixing it up with u.n. employees over lunch . and during his 2002 campaign for record -- for governor , he actually broke a world record by shaking nearly 14,000 hands in just eight hours .
the third step in winning the future is rebuilding america . to attract new businesses to our shores , we need the fastest , most reliable ways to move people , goods , and information -- from high-speed rail to high-speed internet .
because if they 're successful , then the team is successful . so you 're not a good leader if you do n't want somebody who is smarter than you because you think , oh , well , maybe they ’ ll shine more than you do . then you 're not a very good leader because your team won ’ t succeed .
but even here at georgia tech , even with the great value it is , it ’ s expensive . and i ’ m here to tell you , i ’ m with you . i believe that america is not a place where higher education is a privilege that is reserved for the few . america needs to be a place where higher education has to be available for every single person who ’ s willing to strive for it -- who ’ s willing to work for it .
when a little boy is kidnapped , turned into a child soldier , forced to kill or be killed -- that ’ s slavery . when a little girl is sold by her impoverished family -- girls my daughters ’ age -- runs away from home , or is lured by the false promises of a better life , and then imprisoned in a brothel and tortured if she resists -- that ’ s slavery . it is barbaric , and it is evil , and it has no place in a civilized world .
i just met with some of the outstanding leaders and teams from across the community who worked so long and so hard to make that raid a success . and i ’ m pleased today that we ’ re joined by representatives from all of our intelligence agencies , and that folks are watching this live back at all of those agencies , because this truly was a team effort . that ’ s not always the case in washington . but all of you work together every single day .
as we make these decisions , bear in mind the following face : nobody has ever escaped from one of our federal , supermax prisons , which hold hundreds of convicted terrorists . as republican lindsey graham said , the idea that we can not find a place to securely house 250-plus detainees within the united states is not rational .
and number four , this is the biggest reduction in our deficit since the budget balance act -- one of the biggest deficit reduction measures in history -- over $ 1.3 trillion that will help put us on the path of fiscal responsibility .
“ and there is a catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges , and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces . and even if he forever flies within the gorge , that gorge is in the mountains ; so that even in his lowest swoop the mountain eagle is still higher than any other bird upon the plain , even though they soar . ”
i told you i 'd appoint native americans to senior positions in the white house . and i know that many of you have worked with kim teehee of cherokee nation , my senior policy advisor for native american issues ; and charlie galbraith of the navajo nation , in our office of intergovernmental affairs .
we ’ ve got to do everything in our power to grow this economy and put america back to work . that ’ s what i intend to do , and i ’ m looking forward to working with congress to make it happen
so now is the time for healing . now is the time for peace and calm on the streets of ferguson . now is the time for an open and transparent process to see that justice is done . and i ’ ve asked that the attorney general and the u.s. attorney on the scene continue to work with local officials to move that process forward . they will be reporting to me in the coming days about what ’ s being done to make sure that happens .
and so , these men and women should inspire all of us in this room to live up to those same standards ; to be worthy of their trust ; to do our jobs with the same fidelity , and the same integrity , and the same sense of purpose , and the same love of country . because if we 're only focused on profits or ratings or polls , then we 're contributing to the cynicism that so many people feel right now .
and by the way , if you ’ re curious , well , how exactly are we saving these costs ? well , part of it is , again , we ’ re not spending our health care money wisely . so , for example , you go to the hospital or you go to a doctor and you may take five tests , when it turns out if you just took one test , then you send an e-mail around with the test results , you wouldn ’ t be paying $ 500 per test . so we ’ re trying to save money across the system . and altogether , our cost-cutting measures would reduce most people ’ s premiums . and here ’ s the bonus : it brings down our deficit by more than $ 1 trillion over the next two decades .
and the good news is we ’ ve started to make some progress . i mean , what we ’ ve seen so far is that throughout the summer the number of apprehensions have been decreasing -- maybe that ’ s counterintuitive , but that ’ s a good thing because that means that fewer folks are coming across .
i want to thank your ceo , mike petters , for showing me around . i usually don ’ t get a chance to hang out with nuclear submarines , especially submarines that my wife has sponsored . so right there , that was worth the trip .
so in the coming weeks , as the idea of reform becomes more real and the debate becomes more heated , and there are folks who are trying to pull this thing apart , remember alan and all those who share the same hopes and the same dreams . remember that this is not just a debate about policy . it ’ s about people . it ’ s about men and women and young people who want nothing more than the chance to earn their way into the american story .
so my administration has done what we can on our own . and we ’ ve got members of my administration here who ’ ve done outstanding work over the past few years to try to close up some of the gaps that exist in the system . but the system is still broken . and to truly deal with this issue , congress needs to act . and that moment is now .
thank you guys . this week marked a historic moment in the life of our country and our military . for nearly nine years , our nation has been at war in iraq . more than 1.5 million americans have served there with honor , skill , and bravery . tens of thousands have been wounded . military families have sacrificed greatly -- none more so than the families of those nearly 4,500 americans who made the ultimate sacrifice . all of them – our troops , veterans , and their families -- will always have the thanks of a grateful nation .
in the years since then , indonesia has charted its own course through an extraordinary democratic transformation -- from the rule of an iron fist to the rule of the people . in recent years , the world has watched with hope and admiration as indonesians embraced the peaceful transfer of power and the direct election of leaders . and just as your democracy is symbolized by your elected president and legislature , your democracy is sustained and fortified by its checks and balances : a dynamic civil society ; political parties and unions ; a vibrant media and engaged citizens who have ensured that -- in indonesia -- there will be no turning back from democracy .
but the depth of this tragedy also drew out the decency and determination of our nation . at blood banks and vigils ; in schools and in the united states congress , americans were united -- more united , even , than we were at the dawn of the cold war . the world , too , was united against the perpetrators of this evil act , as old allies , new friends , and even long-time adversaries stood by our side . it was time -- once again -- for america 's might and moral suasion to be harnessed ; it was time to once again shape a new security strategy for an ever-changing world .
growing opportunity . that ’ s what we need . that ’ s what we need . that ’ s what we need right now . that ’ s what we need to be focused on
around the world , and here in the united states , inexcusable acts of violence have been committed against people of different faiths , by people of different faiths -- which is , of course , a betrayal of all our faiths .
the president : i ’ m not going to give a particular timetable , because as i ’ ve said from the start , wherever and whenever u.s. personnel and facilities are threatened , it ’ s my obligation , my responsibility as commander-in-chief , to make sure that they are protected . and we ’ re not moving our embassy anytime soon . we ’ re not moving our consulate anytime soon . and that means that , given the challenging security environment , we ’ re going to maintain vigilance and ensure that our people are safe .
and then , in an instant , the day ’ s beauty was shattered . a celebration became a tragedy . and so we come together to pray , and mourn , and measure our loss . but we also come together today to reclaim that state of grace -- to reaffirm that the spirit of this city is undaunted , and the spirit of this country shall remain undimmed .
one of the biggest problems we have with alternative energy is not just producing the energy , but also distributing it . we ’ ve got gas stations all around the country , so whenever you need gas you know you can fill up -- it doesn ’ t matter where you are .
we can not shrink from our role of advancing the values we believe in -- whether it 's supporting afghans as they take responsibility for their future , or working for an israeli-palestinian peace -- or engaging as we 've done in burma to help create space for brave people to emerge from decades of dictatorship . in this century , these are the citizens who long to join the free world . they are who you were . they deserve our support , for they too , in their own way , are citizens of berlin . and we have to help them every day .
we were just trying to tone it down a little bit . that was an awesome day . there are other new players in the media landscape as well , like super pacs . did you know that sheldon adelson spent 100 million dollars of his own money last year on negative ads ? you ’ ve got to really dislike me -- to spend that kind of money . i mean , that ’ s oprah money . you could buy an island and call it “ nobama ” for that kind of money . sheldon would have been better off offering me 100 million dollar to drop out of the race . i probably wouldn ’ t have taken it , but i 'd have thought about it . michelle would have taken it . you think i ’ m joking ?
being able to quickly review phone connections to assess whether a network exists is critical to that effort in sum , the program does not involve the nsa examining the phone records of ordinary americans . rather , it consolidates these records into a database that the government can query if it has a specific lead -- a consolidation of phone records that the companies already retained for business purposes . the review group turned up no indication that this database has been intentionally abused . and i believe it is important that the capability that this program is designed to meet is preserved .
in this way , the situation in syria mirrors a contradiction that has persisted in the region for decades : the united states is chastised for meddling in the region , accused of having a hand in all manner of conspiracy ; at the same time , the united states is blamed for failing to do enough to solve the region ’ s problems and for showing indifference toward suffering muslim populations
thank you very much . thank you , prague . thank you so much . good afternoon . bon après-midi . and guten tag . it is a great honor for me to be here in europe , to be here in strasbourg . i want to make just a few acknowledgements . i want to thank the president of france , nicolas sarkozy , for being such a terrific friend . i want to thank his wife , madam sarkozy . they just hosted us at the palace and could not have been more gracious .
now , look , it is true i have not managed to make everybody happy . six years into my presidency , some people still say i 'm arrogant and aloof , condescending . some people are so dumb . no wonder i do n't meet with them .
now , throughout our history , no issue has united this country more than our security . sadly , some of the unity we felt after 9/11 has dissipated . now , we can argue all we want about who 's to blame for this , but i 'm not interested in re-litigating the past . i know that all of us love this country . all of us are committed to its defense . so let 's put aside the schoolyard taunts about who is tough . let 's reject the false choice between protecting our people and upholding our values . let 's leave behind the fear and division , and do what it takes to defend our nation and forge a more hopeful future -- for america and for the world .
and this law doesn ’ t just mean economic security for our families . it means we ’ re finally addressing the biggest drivers of our long-term deficits . it means a stronger economy .
and that is why we honor this man -- because he had faith in us . and that is why he belongs on this mall -- because he saw what we might become . that is why dr. king was so quintessentially american -- because for all the hardships we ’ ve endured , for all our sometimes tragic history , ours is a story of optimism and achievement and constant striving that is unique upon this earth .
you remember that ? and quite a number of people insisted that this had been photoshopped . but tonight i have something to confess : you were right . guys , can we show them the actual photo ?
through his fierce dignity and unbending will to sacrifice his own freedom for the freedom of others , madiba transformed south africa -- and moved all of us . his journey from a prisoner to a president embodied the promise that human beings -- and countries -- can change for the better . his commitment to transfer power and reconcile with those who jailed him set an example that all humanity should aspire to , whether in the lives of nations or our own personal lives . and the fact that he did it all with grace and good humor , and an ability to acknowledge his own imperfections , only makes the man that much more remarkable . as he once said , “ i am not a saint , unless you think of a saint as a sinner who keeps on trying . ”
even a century after we achieved our own peace , we were not fully united . when i was a boy , many cities still had separate drinking fountains and lunch counters and washrooms for blacks and whites . my own parents ’ marriage would have been illegal in certain states . and someone who looked like me often had a hard time casting a ballot , much less being on a ballot .
because if dr. king could love his jailer , if he could call on the faithful , who once sat where you do , to forgive those who had set dogs and fire hoses upon them , then surely we can look past what divides us in our time and bind up our wounds and erase the sympathy deficit that exists in our hearts
two months ago , i presented the medal to the parents of staff sergeant robert miller , who gave his life here in afghanistan as a member of the green berets . his valor , charging toward some 150 insurgents , saved the lives of nearly two dozen american and afghan comrades .
this leads me to a final point . there will be times when the breakdown of societies is so great , the violence against civilians so substantial that the international community will be called upon to act . this will require new thinking and some very tough choices . while the united nations was designed to prevent wars between states , increasingly we face the challenge of preventing slaughter within states . and these challenges will grow more pronounced as we are confronted with states that are fragile or failing -- places where horrendous violence can put innocent men , women and children at risk , with no hope of protection from their national institutions .
now is the time to let our increased pressure sink in , and to sustain the broad international coalition we have built . now is the time to heed the timeless advice from teddy roosevelt : speak softly ; carry a big stick .
i got you . no , no -- you 're okay . this happens when i talk too long . you 'll be okay . here , why do n't you go good catch , by the way , whoever was here .
when north korea invaded the south , pushing the allied forces into a tiny sliver of territory -- the pusan perimeter -- it seemed like the war could be lost . but you , our korean war veterans , pushed back , fought on , year after bloody year . and this past veterans day , i went to seoul and joined our korean war veterans for the 60th anniversary of that war , and we marked that milestone in a free and prosperous republic of korea , one of our greatest allies .
thank god , he 's made us in his image and we reject the notion that we will for the rest of our lives be confined to a station of inferiority , that we ca n't aspire to the highest of heights , that our talents ca n't be expressed to their fullest . and so because of what they endured , because of what they marched ; they led a people out of bondage .
our challenges may be new . the instruments with which we meet them may be new . but those values upon which our success depends -- honesty and hard work , courage and fair play , tolerance and curiosity , loyalty and patriotism -- these things are old .
now , i have no interest in putting insurance companies out of business . they provide a legitimate service , and employ a lot of our friends and neighbors . i just want to hold them accountable . and the insurance reforms that i 've already mentioned would do just that . but an additional step we can take to keep insurance companies honest is by making a not-for-profit public option available in the insurance exchange . now , let me be clear . let me be clear . it would only be an option for those who do n't have insurance . no one would be forced to choose it , and it would not impact those of you who already have insurance . in fact , based on congressional budget office estimates , we believe that less than 5 percent of americans would sign up .
instead of contacting a bunch of different insurers one at a time , which is what janice and a lot of people who are shopping on the individual market for health insurance had to do , there ’ s one single place you can go shop and compare plans that have to compete for your business .
everybody -- everybody is behind you . everybody back home is behind you . everybody , from north to south to east to west , from sea to shining sea , the american people are united in support of you and your families .
as we end the war in iraq , the united states and our coalition partners have begun a transition in afghanistan . between now and 2014 , an increasingly capable afghan government and security forces will step forward to take responsibility for the future of their country . as they do , we are drawing down our own forces , while building an enduring partnership with the afghan people .
in his life , he has fought for israel ’ s independence , and he has fought for peace and security . as a member of the haganah and a member of the knesset , as a minister of defense and foreign affairs , as a prime minister and as president -- shimon helped build the nation that thrives today : the jewish state of israel . but beyond these extraordinary achievements , he has also been a powerful moral voice that reminds us that right makes might -- not the other way around .
so the recovery plan has been the first step in confronting this economic crisis . the second step has been to heal our financial system so that credit is once again flowing to the businesses and families who rely on it .
and we need to rethink the cost of a medical education , and do more to reward medical students who choose a career as a primary care physician -- who choose to work in underserved areas instead of the more lucrative paths . that 's why we 're making a substantial investment in the national health service corps that will make medical training more affordable for primary care doctors and nurse practitioners so they are n't drowning in debt when they enter the workforce . somebody back there is drowning in debt .
so we flew over the ocean , and with my mother and my grandmother and my sister , who at the time was two , we traveled around the country . it was a big trip . we went to seattle , and we went to disneyland -- which was most important . we traveled to kansas where my grandmother 's family was from , and went to chicago , and went to yellowstone . and we took greyhound buses most of the time , and we rented cars , and we would stay at local motels or howard johnson 's . and if there was a pool at one of these motels , even if it was just tiny , i would be very excited . and the ice machine was exciting -- and the vending machine , i was really excited about that .
and that ’ s why this plan eliminates tax loopholes that primarily go to the wealthiest taxpayers and biggest corporations –- tax breaks that small businesses and middle-class families don ’ t get . and if tax reform does n't get done , this plan asks the wealthiest americans to go back to paying the same rates that they paid during the 1990s , before the bush tax cuts .
next week , just up the street , i will deliver the state of the union address . and it will be a chance to talk about america ’ s resurgence , including something we can all be proud of , which is the longest stretch of private sector job growth in american history -- 58 straight months and more than 11 million new jobs . in the speech , i ’ m going to focus on how we can build on that progress and help more americans feel that resurgence in their own lives , through higher wages and rising incomes and a growing middle class .
and far too often , american jews faced the scourge of anti-semitism here at home . but our founding documents gave us a north star , our bill of rights ; our system of government gave us a capacity for change .
over the last few years , particularly in egypt , we ’ ve seen just how hard this transition will be . mohamed morsi was democratically elected , but proved unwilling or unable to govern in a way that was fully inclusive . the interim government that replaced him responded to the desires of millions of egyptians who believed the revolution had taken a wrong turn , but it , too , has made decisions inconsistent with inclusive democracy -- through an emergency law , and restrictions on the press and civil society and opposition parties .
and that ’ s on me . i mean , we fumbled the rollout on this health care law . there are a whole bunch of things about it that are working really well which people didn ’ t notice because they weren ’ t controversial -- so making sure kids could stay on their parents ’ plans until they were -- through the age of 25 , and making sure that seniors got more discounts on their prescription drugs . there were a whole bunch of stuff that we did well over the first three years .
we need you to project power across the oceans , from the pacific to the persian gulf -- 100 percent on watch . we need you to partner with other navies and militaries , from africa to the americas . we need you to respond with compassion in times of disaster , as when you helped respond to hurricane sandy . and in all your work -- in your lifetime of service -- we need you to uphold the highest standards of integrity and character .
mr. president , i rise today both humbled and honored by the opportunity to express my support for renewal of the expiring provisions of the voting rights act of 1965 . i want to thank the many people inside and outside congress who have worked so hard over the past year to get us here . we owe a great debt of gratitude to the leadership on both sides of the aisle . and we owe special thanks to chairmen sensenbrenner and specter , ranking members conyers and leahy , and representative mel watt . without their work and dedication , and the support of voting rights advocates across the country , i doubt that this bill would have come before us so soon .
so , again , i am -- i 'm so grateful that all of you are here . i am ... so moved by your support . but there are going to be other days for politics . this , i think , is a day for prayer and reflection .
you 'll hear talking heads scream on cable ; and you 'll read blogs that claim definitive knowledge ; and you will watch politicians pretend they know what they 're talking about . occasionally , you may have the great fortune of actually seeing important issues debated by people who do know what they 're talking about -- by well-intentioned people with brilliant minds and mastery of the facts .
and dr. king explained that the goals of african americans were identical to working people of all races : “ decent wages , fair working conditions , livable housing , old-age security , health and welfare measures , conditions in which families can grow , have education for their children , and respect in the community . ”
countries stand on the brink of conflict or collapse . the extremists encourage the exploitation of these hopeless places on their hate-filled websites . and we know what the extremists say about us . america is just an occupying army in muslim lands , the shadow of a shrouded figure standing on a box at abu ghraib , the power behind the throne of a repressive leader . they say we are at war with islam . that is the whispered line of the extremist who has nothing to offer in this battle of ideas but blame – blameamerica , blame progress , blame jews . and often he offers something along with the hate . a sense of empowerment . maybe an education at a madrasa , some charity for your family , some basic services in the neighborhood . and then : a mission and a gun .
rosa parks tell us there ’ s always something we can do . she tells us that we all have responsibilities , to ourselves and to one another . she reminds us that this is how change happens -- not mainly through the exploits of the famous and the powerful , but through the countless acts of often anonymous courage and kindness and fellow feeling and responsibility that continually , stubbornly , expand our conception of justice -- our conception of what is possible .
needless to say , walter made the call , and even as the program manager took to the air himself to broadcast the unfolding tragedy , walter discovered that it had been nothing more than a small fire that had n't resulted in any injuries . he lost his job -- but he got the story right .
the americans who have served in iraq completed every mission they were given . they defeated a regime that had terrorized its people . together with iraqis and coalition partners who made huge sacrifices of their own , our troops fought block by block to help iraq seize the chance for a better future . they shifted tactics to protect the iraqi people , trained iraqi security forces , and took out terrorist leaders . because of our troops and civilians -- and because of the resilience of the iraqi people -- iraq has the opportunity to embrace a new destiny , even though many challenges remain .
so here at newport news shipbuilding , you guys have made an enormous investment , because we 've said in order to maintain the finest navy that the world has ever known we 've got to make sure that there is an orderly process whereby we are continually upgrading our ships , building new ships , maintaining our ships properly . and these are some big ships . so it ’ s expensive , and it ’ s complicated . and you ’ ve got 5,000 suppliers all across the country , and you 've got to have some certainty and some knowledge about how things are going to proceed over the long term for mike and others to plan properly .
we already treat companies from other countries fairly here . but our companies don ’ t always get treated fairly there . so sometimes they need to have some way to settle disputes where it ’ s not subject to the whims of some government bureaucrat in that country . that ’ s important . we want our businesses to succeed in selling over there because that 's how our workers will get more jobs here in the united states .
instead , it is that american spirit , that american promise , that pushes us forward even when the path is uncertain ; that binds us together in spite of our differences ; that makes us fix our eye not on what is seen , but what is unseen , that better place around the bend .
in many cases , young adults without health insurance are now able to stay on their parents ’ plan until they ’ re 26 years old . even though insurance companies had until september to comply with this rule , we asked them to do so immediately to avoid coverage gaps for young adults , and most have agreed .
we 've now had a series of conversations , and it has never been realistic that we would resolve the entire problem all at once . what we have done is seen the possibility of an agreement in which iran would halt advances on its program ; that it would dilute some of the highly enriched uranium that makes it easier for them to potentially produce a weapon ; that they are subjecting themselves to much more vigorous inspections so that we know exactly what they ’ re doing at all their various facilities ; and that that would then provide time and space for us to test , over a certain period of months , whether or not they are prepared to actually resolve this issue to the satisfaction of the international community -- making us confident that , in fact , they ’ re not pursuing a nuclear weapons program
in a region that has known so much bloodshed , these terrorists are unique in their brutality . they execute captured prisoners . they kill children . they enslave , rape , and force women into marriage . they threatened a religious minority with genocide . and in acts of barbarism , they took the lives of two american journalists -- jim foley and steven sotloff .
pulang kampung nih . [ back to/in my hometown ] . i am so glad that i made it back to indonesia and that michelle was able to join me . we had a couple of false starts this year , but i was determined to visit a country that ’ s meant so much to me . and unfortunately , this visit is too short , but i look forward to coming back a year from now when indonesia hosts the east asia summit .
today , i sent a letter to congressional leaders asking that they work with me to address the urgent humanitarian challenge on the border , and support the immigration and border patrol agents who already apprehend and deport hundreds of thousands of undocumented immigrants every year . and understand , by the way , for the most part , this is not a situation where these children are slipping through . they ’ re being apprehended . but the problem is , is that our system is so broken , so unclear that folks don ’ t know what the rules are .
the president : well , my understanding is the vice president is going to provide a range of steps that we can take to reduce gun violence . some of them will require legislation . some of them i can accomplish through executive action . and so i 'll be reviewing those today . and as i said , i 'll speak in more detail to what we 're going to go ahead and propose later in the week .
so , yes , our military will be leaner , but the world must know the united states is going to maintain our military superiority with armed forces that are agile , flexible and ready for the full range of contingencies and threats .
now , i ’ m going to go off-script here for a second and just say i really like this guy . i think anybody -- we all just get a sense of people and who they are , and when you meet sal and you meet his family , you are just absolutely convinced that this is what america is all about . and it just makes you proud . and so this is a joyous occasion for me -- something that i have been looking forward to .
but it does require us , first of all , having a vision about where we want to be . it requires us recognizing that it will be hard work getting there . it requires us being able to overcome and persevere in the face of roadblocks and disappointments and failures . it requires us reflecting internally about who we are and what we believe in , and facing up to our own fears and insecurities , and admitting when we 're wrong . and that same thing that we have to do in our individual lives that these guys talked about , that 's what we have to do for our communities . and it will not be easy , but it can be done .
so here in new delhi , prime minister modi and i have begun this work anew . and here 's what i think we can do together . america wants to be your partner as you lift up the lives of the indian people and provide greater opportunity . so working together , we 're giving farmers new techniques and data -- from our satellites to their cell phones -- to increase yields and boost incomes . we 're joining you in your effort to empower every indian with a bank account .
thank you very much . secretary hagel , secretary mabus , admirals greenert and hilarides , mayor gray , leaders from across this city and our armed forces , to all the outstanding first responders , and , most of all , the families whose hearts have been broken :
in 1960 , at the height of his presidential campaign , jfk came to michigan . and it was a moment similar to this one . other nations were doing their best to try to take our place at the top . and here in michigan , he made it clear that if we wanted to keep from being knocked off our perch , there could only be one goal for the united states . it could be summed up in one word : “ first. ” first .
luther : okay , mr. president . okay , i think they 've got it , bro . president obama : it is crazy ! what about our kids ? what kind of stupid , shortsighted , irresponsible bull --
on april 20th , an explosion ripped through bp deepwater horizon drilling rig , about 40 miles off the coast of louisiana . eleven workers lost their lives . seventeen others were injured . and soon , nearly a mile beneath the surface of the ocean , oil began spewing into the water .
mayor maddox : where ’ s the secret service when you need them ? the president : finally , let me just say this . as you walk around , we were just talking to three young people over there -- college students here at the university of alabama who are volunteering now to help clean up . one of the young ladies there , she actually lived in this apartment ; wasn ’ t here at the time the storm happened .
thanks very much , everybody . good evening . there are still some very important votes to be taken by members of congress , but i want to announce that the leaders of both parties , in both chambers , have reached an agreement that will reduce the deficit and avoid default -- a default that would have had a devastating effect on our economy .
and so if we do nothing in the face of globalization , more people will continue to lose their health care . fewer kids will be able to afford the diploma you ’ re about to receive .
what president johnson understood was that equality required more than the absence of oppression . it required the presence of economic opportunity . he wouldn ’ t be as eloquent as dr. king would be in describing that linkage , as dr. king moved into mobilizing sanitation workers and a poor people ’ s movement , but he understood that connection because he had lived it .
so in that context , i 'll work with anybody who ’ s got a serious idea to make the affordable care act work better . i 've said that repeatedly . but as long as i am president , i will not give in to reckless demands by some in the republican party to deny affordable health insurance to millions of hardworking americans .
it ’ s a bill that will also revitalize our community colleges , which are a career pathway to the children of so many working families . in addition to training our workers for the jobs of the future , we ’ re also investing in the innovation that will create those jobs here in america -- the research , the technology , the infrastructure that will secure our economic future .
as we continue our response effort , we ’ re also moving quickly on steps to ensure that a catastrophe like this never happens again . i ’ ve said before that producing oil here in america is an essential part of our overall energy strategy . but all drilling must be safe .
i ’ m not talking about the budget deficit . i ’ m not talking about the trade deficit . talking about the moral deficit in this country . i ’ m talking about an empathy deficit , the inability to recognize ourselves in one another , to understand that we are our brother ’ s keeper and our sister ’ s keeper , that in the words of dr. king , “ we are all tied together in a single garment of destiny. ” we have an empathy deficit when we ’ re still sending our children down corridors of shame , schools in the forgotten corners of america where the color of your skin still affects the content of your education .
i got a letter last week from a self-employed man named john mier in leetsdale , pennsylvania . he used the new marketplace to get himself and his wife covered and save a lot of money .
right now , our immigration system has no credible way of dealing with the 11 million men and women who are in this country illegally . and , yes , they broke the rules ; they didn ’ t wait their turn . they shouldn ’ t be let off easy . they shouldn ’ t be allowed to game the system . but at the same time , the vast majority of these individuals aren ’ t looking for any trouble . they ’ re just looking to provide for their families , contribute to their communities .
and no country can realize its potential if half its population can not reach theirs . this week , the united states signed a new declaration on women ’ s participation . next year , we should each announce the steps we are taking to break down the economic and political barriers that stand in the way of women and girls . this is what our commitment to human progress demands .
here ’ s what we know so far . evidence indicates that the plane was shot down by a surface-to-air missile that was launched from an area that is controlled by russian-backed separatists inside of ukraine . we also know that this is not the first time a plane has been shot down in eastern ukraine . over the last several weeks , russian-backed separatists have shot down a ukrainian transport plane and a ukrainian helicopter , and they claimed responsibility for shooting down a ukrainian fighter jet . moreover , we know that these separatists have received a steady flow of support from russia . this includes arms and training . it includes heavy weapons , and it includes anti-aircraft weapons .
we said a year ago that we ’ re going to build the capacity of the afghan people . and that ’ s what you ’ re doing , meeting our recruitment targets , training afghan forces , partnering with those afghans who want to build a stronger and more stable and more prosperous afghanistan .
i 'll close by saying this : this oil spill is an unprecedented disaster . the fact that the source of the leak is a mile under the surface , where no human being can go , has made it enormously difficult to stop . but we are relying on every resource and every idea , every expert and every bit of technology , to work to stop it . we will take ideas from anywhere , but we are going to stop it .
and i ’ m proud to announce that the united states will work with partners in this region , including the private sector , to increase the number of u.s. students studying in latin america to 100,000 , and the number of latin america students studying in the united states to 100,000 .
this isn ’ t even like the early ‘ 80s , when the top tax rate was about 70 percent . under president clinton , the top rate was only about 39 percent . today , thanks to loopholes and shelters , a quarter of all millionaires now pay lower tax rates than millions of you , millions of middle-class families .
and beyond making insurance more affordable and more secure , reform also will mean changes that make it easier for you -- the backbone of the health care system -- to do your jobs . already , over the past year , we ’ ve made one of the largest investments in the nursing and health workforce in recent history . we passed landmark reforms to make college more affordable , which can help more people gain a nursing degree -- even as we provide grants and aid for more than 15,000 nurses seeking graduate degrees and other training .
when bryan ritterby was laid off from his job making furniture , he said he worried that at 55 , no one would give him a second chance . but he found work at energetx , a wind turbine manufacturer in michigan . before the recession , the factory only made luxury yachts . today , it ’ s hiring workers like bryan , who said , “ i ’ m proud to be working in the industry of the future . ”
the two of them shared the optimism of a nation that had triumphed over a depression and fascism . they understood they were part of something larger ; that they were contributing to a story of success that every american had a chance to share -- the basic american promise that if you worked hard , you could do well enough to raise a family , own a home , send your kids to college , and put a little away for retirement .
of course , other nations recognize this , and are looking to gain an edge in the global marketplace by investing in better schools , supporting teachers , and committing to clear standards that will produce graduates with more skills . our competitors understand that the nation that out-educates us today will out-compete us tomorrow . yet , too often we have failed to make inroads in reforming and strengthening our public education system -- the debate mired in worn arguments hurled across entrenched divides .
but while we will never know fully what causes somebody to take the life of another , we do know what makes life worth living . the people we lost in aurora loved and they were loved . they were mothers and fathers ; they were husbands and wives ; sisters and brothers ; sons and daughters , friends and neighbors . they had hopes for the future and they had dreams that were not yet fulfilled .
that ’ s my promise to you . and that is a promise on behalf of a nation . it is one that we will keep and i will make one last point -- and i said this to every leader who is here : if something is not going right down here , then they need to talk to thad allen . and if they ’ re not getting satisfaction from thad allen , then they can talk to me . there ’ s nobody here who can ’ t get in touch with me directly if there is an idea , a suggestion , or a logjam that needs to be dealt with .
and it won ’ t matter whether they ’ re black kids or brown kids or white kids or native american kids , because he ’ ll understand what they ’ re going through . and he 'll be fighting for them .
information sharing with state and local governments must be a two-way street , because we never know where the two pieces of the puzzle are that might fit together – the tip from afghanistan , and the cop who sees something suspicious on michigan avenue . i will increase funding to help train police to gather information and connect it to the intelligence they receive from the federal government . i will address the problem in our prisons , where the most disaffected and disconnected americans are being explicitly targeted for conversion by al qaeda and its ideological allies .
now , here i was , a young boy with a white mom , a black father , raised in indonesia and hawaii . and i was beginning to sense how fitting into the world might not be as simple as it might seem . and so to see this man , this senator , this powerful , accomplished person who was n't out of central casting when it came to what you 'd think a senator might look like at the time , and the way he commanded the respect of an entire nation i think it hinted to me what might be possible in my own life .
already , the united states has imposed strong sanctions on syria ’ s leaders . we supported a transfer of power that is responsive to the syrian people . and many of our allies have joined in this effort . but for the sake of syria -- and the peace and security of the world -- we must speak with one voice . there 's no excuse for inaction . now is the time for the united nations security council to sanction the syrian regime , and to stand with the syrian people .
now , only you can determine what kind of democracy you will have . but remember that as you make these decisions , you will define not simply the future of your relationship with the palestinians -- you will define the future of israel as well .
and worst of all , this is a vision that says even though americans can ’ t afford to invest in education at current levels , or clean energy , even though we can ’ t afford to maintain our commitment on medicare and medicaid , we can somehow afford more than $ 1 trillion in new tax breaks for the wealthy . think about that .
yesterday , president yudhoyono and i announced a new comprehensive partnership between the united states and indonesia . we are increasing ties between our governments in many different areas , and -- just as importantly -- we are increasing ties among our people . this is a partnership of equals , grounded in mutual interests and mutual respect .
it 's a politics that uses religion as a wedge and patriotism as a bludgeon , a politics that tells us that we have to think , act , and even vote within the confines of the categories that supposedly define us , the assumption that young people are apathetic , the assumption that republicans wo n't cross over , the assumption that the wealthy care nothing for the poor and that the poor do n't vote , the assumption that african-americans ca n't support the white candidate , whites ca n't support the african-american candidate , blacks and latinos can not come together .
before i leave , let me also briefly address the events that have taken place over the last few days in the islamic republic of iran . the united states joins with the international community in strongly condemning the violent and unjust suppression of innocent iranian citizens , which has apparently resulted in detentions , injuries , and even death .
and second , if you ask insurance companies to cover people with preexisting conditions , but don ’ t require people who can afford it to buy their own insurance , some folks might wait until they ’ re sick to buy the care they need -- which would also drive up everybody else ’ s premiums .
now , this kind of inequality -- a level that we haven ’ t seen since the great depression -- hurts us all . when middle-class families can no longer afford to buy the goods and services that businesses are selling , when people are slipping out of the middle class , it drags down the entire economy from top to bottom . america was built on the idea of broad-based prosperity , of strong consumers all across the country . that ’ s why a ceo like henry ford made it his mission to pay his workers enough so that they could buy the cars he made . it ’ s also why a recent study showed that countries with less inequality tend to have stronger and steadier economic growth over the long run .
we ’ ve certainly had our differences over the last 16 months . but as someone who ’ s shared a stage with her many times , i can tell you that what gets hillary clinton up in the morning -- even in the face of tough odds -- is exactly what sent her and bill clinton to sign up for their first campaign in texas all those years ago , what sent her to work at the children ’ s defense fund and made her fight for health care as first lady , what led her to the united states senate and fueled her barrier-breaking campaign for the presidency : an unyielding desire to improve the lives of ordinary americans , no matter how difficult the fight may be .
bahrain is a longstanding partner , and we are committed to its security . we recognize that iran has tried to take advantage of the turmoil there , and that the bahraini government has a legitimate interest in the rule of law .
god bless you all . god bless our veterans . god bless our men and women in uniform . and god bless these united states of america . thank you . thank you . thank you , everybody . well , thank you , janice . and thanks to everybody here for coming on this beautiful day . welcome to the white house .
greater love hath no man than this , that a man lay down his life for his friends . the flag they served under now carries them home . may god bless the memory of these men who laid down their lives for us all .
i intend to protect a free and open internet , extend its reach to every classroom , and every community -- and help folks build the fastest networks so that the next generation of digital innovators and entrepreneurs have the platform to keep reshaping our world .
already , i have directed a full review of what happened . we will identify the lessons that can be learned from this tragedy , and any changes that should be made . we will do our utmost to ensure it is not repeated . and we will continue to do everything we can to prevent the loss of innocent lives -- not just innocent americans , but all innocent lives in our counterterrorism operations .
and in 1910 , teddy roosevelt came here to osawatomie and he laid out his vision for what he called a new nationalism . “ our country , ” he said , “ …means nothing unless it means the triumph of a real democracy…of an economic system under which each man shall be guaranteed the opportunity to show the best that there is in him . ”
today that choice is very clear . to reduce our deficit , i ’ ve already signed nearly $ 1 trillion of spending cuts into law and i ’ ve proposed trillions more , including reforms that would lower the cost of medicare and medicaid .
that 's why we build on the largest investment in clean energy in history , as well as increase investment in scientific research , so that we are fostering the industries and jobs of the future right here in america .
president obama : no . and here ’ s why : it is not just part of my responsibility , but it is a sacred duty for me as commander-in-chief to protect the american people . and that requires me to act fast , based on information i receive , if an embassy of ours or a consulate of ours is being threatened . the decisions i made were based on very concrete assessments about the possibility that erbil might be overrun in the kurdish region and that our consulate could be in danger . and i can ’ t afford to wait in order to make sure that those folks are protected .
on thursday , december 6 , 1956. and before dr. king had pointed us to the mountaintop , before he told us about his dream in front of the lincoln memorial , king came here , as a 27-year-old preacher , to speak on what he called `` the challenge of a new age . '' `` the challenge of a new age . '' it was a period of triumph , but also uncertainty , for dr. king and his followers -- because just weeks earlier , the supreme court had ordered the desegregation of montgomery 's buses , a hard-wrought , hard-fought victory that would put an end to the 381-day historic boycott down in montgomery , alabama .
and i think that colorado has shown that practical progress is possible thanks to the leadership of governor hickenlooper and some of the state legislators who are here today . when i was talking to steve , he mentioned that aurora is very much a purple city . it ’ s got a majority republican city council ; a majority of the state legislators are democrat . but they came together understanding that out of this tragedy there had to be something that made sense . and so we ’ ve seen enacted tougher background checks that won ’ t infringe on the rights of responsible gun owners , but will help keep guns out of the hands of dangerous people .
that 's why i 'm speaking to you in the center of a europe that is peaceful , united and free -- because ordinary people believed that divisions could be bridged , even when their leaders did not . they believed that walls could come down ; that peace could prevail .
you see , when a tragedy like this strikes , it is part of our nature to demand explanations –- to try and pose some order on the chaos and make sense out of that which seems senseless . already we ’ ve seen a national conversation commence , not only about the motivations behind these killings , but about everything from the merits of gun safety laws to the adequacy of our mental health system . and much of this process , of debating what might be done to prevent such tragedies in the future , is an essential ingredient in our exercise of self-government .
[ `` ] in lake county , ohio , some voters received a memo on bogus board of election [ s ] letterhead , informing voters who registered through democratic and naacp drives that they could not vote . [ `` ] 3
think about that . it ’ s like hitting the american people twice . you ’ re already paying a premium at the pump right now . and on top of that , congress , up until this point , has thought it was a good idea to send billions of dollars more in tax dollars to the oil industry .
and while i 'm at it on thank you 's , i think it makes sense for me to thank the love of my life , the rock of the obama family , the closer on the campaign trail : give it up for michelle obama .
so make no mistake : the status quo on health care is no longer an option for the united states of america . if we step back from this challenge right now , we will leave our children a legacy of debt -- a future of crushing costs that bankrupt our families , our businesses , and because we will have done nothing to bring down the cost of medicare and medicaid , will crush our government .
to meet that goal , we will pursue the following objectives within afghanistan . we must deny al qaeda a safe-haven . we must reverse the taliban 's momentum and deny it the ability to overthrow the government . and we must strengthen the capacity of afghanistan 's security forces and government , so that they can take lead responsibility for afghanistan 's future .
eisenhower understood the danger of silence . he understood that if no one knew what had happened , that would be yet another atrocity -- and it would be the perpetrators ' ultimate triumph .
thank you . god bless you . may god bless the united states of america . to graça machel and the mandela family ; to president zuma and members of the government ; to heads of states and government , past and present ; distinguished guests -- it is a singular honor to be with you today , to celebrate a life like no other . to the people of south africa -- people of every race and walk of life -- the world thanks you for sharing nelson mandela with us . his struggle was your struggle . his triumph was your triumph . your dignity and your hope found expression in his life . and your freedom , your democracy is his cherished legacy .
and i 'm reminded , toward the end of the 1930s , amidst the depression , the looming prospect of war , fdr , president roosevelt , realized he would need to form a new partnership with business if we were going to become what he would later call the `` arsenal of democracy . '' and as you can imagine , the relationship between the president and business leaders during the course of the depression had been rocky at times . they 'd grown somewhat fractured by the new deal .
and this leads me to the final pillar that must fortify our future : a global economy that advances opportunity for all people . the world is still recovering from the worst economic crisis since the great depression . in america , we see the engine of growth beginning to churn , and yet many still struggle to find a job or pay their bills . across the globe , we find promising signs , but little certainty about what lies ahead . and far too many people in far too many places live through the daily crises that challenge our humanity -- the despair of an empty stomach ; the thirst brought on by dwindling water supplies ; the injustice of a child dying from a treatable disease ; or a mother losing her life as she gives birth .
nine years have now passed . in that time , you have shed more tears than we will ever know . and though it must seem some days as though the world has moved on to other things , i say to you today that your loved ones endure in the heart of our nation , now and forever .
it ’ s a vision that says up to 50 million americans have to lose their health insurance in order for us to reduce the deficit . who are these 50 million americans ? many are somebody ’ s grandparents -- may be one of yours -- who wouldn ’ t be able to afford nursing home care without medicaid . many are poor children . some are middle-class families who have children with autism or down ’ s syndrome . some of these kids with disabilities are -- the disabilities are so severe that they require 24-hour care . these are the americans we ’ d be telling to fend for themselves .
we 're asking these firms to take responsibility , to recognize the nature of this crisis and their role in it . we believe that what we 've laid out should be viewed as fair and embraced as basic common sense .
and it was here , at morehouse , as dr. king later wrote , where “ i realized that nobody…was afraid . not even of some bad weather . i added on that part . i know it ’ s wet out there . but dr. wilson told me you all had a choice and decided to do it out here anyway . that 's a morehouse man talking .
president obama : especially with ? i ’ m sorry , the last part ? question : especially with the united states . president obama : oh , with the united states . well , look , i think that -- i ’ ve seen already significant progress with asean countries over the last six years that i ’ ve been attending the asean meetings and the east asia summit .
our work is more urgent than ever , because this chapter of war is coming to an end . soon , one of the first marines to arrive in afghanistan 12 years ago -- brigadier general daniel yoo -- will lead his camp pendleton marines as they become one of the last major groups of marines to deploy in this war . and over the coming months , more of our troops will come home . this winter , our troop levels in afghanistan will be down to 34,000. and by this time next year , the transition to afghan-led security will be nearly complete . the longest war in american history will end .
for the united states , this reflects a broader shift . after a decade in which we fought two wars that cost us dearly , in blood and treasure , the united states is turning our attention to the vast potential of the asia pacific region . in just a few weeks , after nearly nine years , the last american troops will leave iraq and our war there will be over . in afghanistan , we ’ ve begun a transition -- a responsible transition -- so afghans can take responsibility for their future and so coalition forces can begin to draw down . and with partners like australia , we ’ ve struck major blows against al qaeda and put that terrorist organization on the path to defeat , including delivering justice to osama bin laden .
it ’ s also a testament to the historic leadership -- and uncommon courage -- of the men and women of the united states congress , who ’ ve taken their lumps during this difficult debate .
those who attacked us sought to demoralize us , divide us , to deprive us of the very unity , the very ideals , that make america america -- those qualities that have made us a beacon of freedom and hope to billions around the world . today we declare once more we will never hand them that victory . as americans , we will keep alive the virtues and values that make us who we are and who we must always be .
we ’ ve got to teach them just like what we have to learn , what it means to be a man -- to serve your city like maynard jackson ; to shape the culture like spike lee ; to be like chester davenport , one of the first people to integrate the university of georgia law school . when he got there , nobody would sit next to him in class . but chester didn ’ t mind . later on , he said , “ it was the thing for me to do . someone needed to be the first. ” and today , chester is here celebrating his 50th reunion . where is chester davenport ? he ’ s here .
and they knew that when any government measure , no matter how carefully crafted or beneficial , is subject to scorn ; when any efforts to help people in need are attacked as un-american ; when facts and reason are thrown overboard and only timidity passes for wisdom , and we can no longer even engage in a civil conversation with each other over the things that truly matter -- that at that point we do n't merely lose our capacity to solve big challenges .
if some businesses do n't provide workers health care , it forces the rest of us to pick up the tab when their workers get sick , and gives those businesses an unfair advantage over their competitors .
now , this doesn ’ t mean we can afford to stand still . the nature of our leadership will need to change with the times . as i said the first time i came to london as president , for the g20 summit , the days are gone when roosevelt and churchill could sit in a room and solve the world ’ s problems over a glass of brandy -- although i ’ m sure that prime minister cameron would agree that some days we could both use a stiff drink . in this century , our joint leadership will require building new partnerships , adapting to new circumstances , and remaking ourselves to meet the demands of a new era .
on the other hand , it is also undeniable that the palestinian people -- muslims and christians -- has suffered in pursuit of a homeland . for more than 60 years they 've endured the pain of dislocation . many wait in refugee camps in the west bank , gaza , and neighboring lands for a life of peace and security that they have never been able to lead . they endure the daily humiliations -- large and small -- that come with occupation . so let there be no doubt : the situation for the palestinian people is intolerable . and america will not turn our backs on the legitimate palestinian aspiration for dignity , opportunity , and a state of their own .
as president , i have tried to close gtmo . i transferred 67 detainees to other countries before congress imposed restrictions to effectively prevent us from either transferring detainees to other countries or imprisoning them here in the united states .
repealing obamacare and cutting spending is not an economic plan . it ’ s not . if you ’ re serious about a balanced , long-term fiscal plan that replaces the mindless cuts currently in place , or if you ’ re interested in tax reform that closes corporate loopholes and gives working families a better deal , i ’ m ready to work . but you should know that i will not accept deals that don ’ t meet the basic test of strengthening the prospects of hardworking families . this is the agenda we have to be working on .
to ensure that we ’ re fully prepared for that , and in accordance with input from folks down here , i ’ ve directed secretary napolitano and admiral allen to triple the manpower in places where oil has hit the shore or is within 24 hours of impact . this increase will allow us to further intensify this already historic response , contain and remove oil more quickly , and help minimize the time that any oil comes into contact with our coastline . that means deploying more boom , cleaning more beaches , performing more monitoring of wildlife and impact to this ecosystem .
from this position of strength , we ’ ve begun to wind down the war in afghanistan . ten thousand of our troops have come home . twenty-three thousand more will leave by the end of this summer . this transition to afghan lead will continue , and we will build an enduring partnership with afghanistan , so that it is never again a source of attacks against america .
but challenging as they are , it 's not the magnitude of our problems that concerns me the most . it 's the smallness of our politics . america 's faced big problems before . but today , our leaders in washington seem incapable of working together in a practical , common sense way . politics has become so bitter and partisan , so gummed up by money and influence , that we ca n't tackle the big problems that demand solutions . and that 's what we have to change first . we have to change our politics , and come together around our common interests and concerns as americans .
that means cutting off the funding that fuels this hate . it ’ s time to end the hypocrisy of those who accumulate wealth through the global economy and then siphon funds to those who teach children to tear it down .
iran is the only party to the npt that can not demonstrate the peaceful intentions of its nuclear program , and those actions have consequences . through u.n. security council resolution 1929 , we made it clear that international law is not an empty promise .
that leads me to the third part of our strategy -- comprehensive american engagement across the region . the future of iraq is inseparable from the future of the broader middle east , so we must work with our friends and partners to establish a new framework that advances iraq ’ s security and the region ’ s . it is time for iraq to be a full partner in a regional dialogue , and for iraq ’ s neighbors to establish productive and normalized relations with iraq . and going forward , the united states will pursue principled and sustained engagement with all of the nations in the region , and that will include iran and syria .
today , no area holds more promise than our investments in american energy . after years of talking about it , we ’ re finally poised to control our own energy future . we produce more oil at home than we have in 15 years . we have doubled the distance our cars will go on a gallon of gas , and the amount of renewable energy we generate from sources like wind and solar -- with tens of thousands of good american jobs to show for it . we produce more natural gas than ever before -- and nearly everyone ’ s energy bill is lower because of it . and over the last four years , our emissions of the dangerous carbon pollution that threatens our planet have actually fallen .
when they weren ’ t out on the road in their motor home , you could find them just up the road , helping folks in need at the mountain avenue church of christ . a retired construction worker , dorwan spent his spare time fixing up the church along with his dog , tux . his final act of selflessness was to dive on top of his wife , sacrificing his life for hers .
so i 've made a commitment to afghanistan , and i 've asked our nato partners for more civilian and military support and assistance . we do this with a clear purpose : to root out the terrorists who threaten all of us , to train the afghan people to sustain their own security and to help them advance their own opportunity , and to quicken the day when our troops come home .
as vice chairman , admiral sandy winnefeld will draw on more than 30 years of distinguished service . under his command , fighters from the aircraft carrier uss enterprise pounded taliban positions in the weeks after 9/11 and his carrier strike group played a critical role in air operations over iraq . having served as a nato commander , sandy is well known to our allies . having served on the joint staff , he is known and trusted here at the white house .
it ’ s a simple set of principles that if everybody signed onto -- republicans , democrats , state legislators , university presidents , members of congress -- it can focus our attention , all these different things that we ’ re doing , into one simple , basic idea , which is , make sure that when you ’ re doing the right thing , that your society has got your back and is looking out for you .
look , like the majority of americans , i believe that the second amendment guarantees an individual right to bear arms . this country has a strong tradition of gun ownership that ’ s been handed down from generation to generation . obviously across the country there are regional differences . there are differences between how people feel in urban areas and rural areas . and the fact is the vast majority of gun owners in america are responsible -- they buy their guns legally and they use them safely , whether for hunting or sport shooting , collection or protection .
they should have to defend that unfairness -- explain why somebody who 's making $ 50 million a year in the financial markets should be paying 15 percent on their taxes , when a teacher making $ 50,000 a year is paying more than that -- paying a higher rate .
i love you back . [ to audience ] a little less than one year from today , you will go into the voting booth and you will select the president of the united states of america . now , here ’ s the good news -- the name george w. bush will not be on the ballot . the name of my cousin dick cheney will not be on the ballot . we ’ ve been trying to hide that for a long time . everybody has a black sheep in the family . the era of scooter libby justice , and brownie incompetence , and karl rove politics will finally be over .
president obama : it was a candid and fruitful conversation between me and raul castro . i can tell you that , in the conversations i ’ ve had so far with him -- two on the phone and , most recently , face-to-face -- that we are able to speak honestly about our differences and our concerns in ways that i think offer the possibility of moving the relationship between our two countries in a different and better direction .
this year , tens of thousands of uninsured americans with preexisting conditions , the parents of children who have a preexisting condition , will finally be able to purchase the coverage they need . that happens this year .
and it ’ s time to make this institution more accountable as well , because the challenges of a new century demand new ways of serving our common interests . the world that america seeks is not one we can build on our own . for human rights to reach those who suffer the boot of oppression , we need your voices to speak out . in particular , i appeal to those nations who emerged from tyranny and inspired the world in the second half of the last century -- from south africa to south asia ; from eastern europe to south america . don ’ t stand idly by , don ’ t be silent , when dissidents elsewhere are imprisoned and protesters are beaten . recall your own history . because part of the price of our own freedom is standing up for the freedom of others .
it started with technology and automation that rendered entire occupations obsolete . when was the last time anybody here stood in line for the bank teller instead of going to the atm , or talked to a switchboard operator ? then it continued when companies like maytag were able to pick up and move their factories to some under developed country where workers were a lot cheaper than they are in the united states .
but instead of saving money by shifting costs to seniors , like the congressional republican plan proposes , our approach would lower the cost of health care throughout the entire system . it goes after excessive subsidies to prescription drug companies .
for many years , our focus was on iraq . and year after year , our troops faced a set of challenges there that were as daunting as they were complex . a lesser army might have seen its spirit broken . but the american military is more resilient than that . our troops adapted , they persisted , they partnered with coalition and iraqi counterparts , and through their competence and creativity and courage , we are poised to end our combat mission in iraq this summer .
and something that cheri and i were talking about on the way over here -- i ’ m going to be pushing to open more manufacturing innovation institutes that turn regions left behind by global competition into global centers of cutting-edge jobs . so let ’ s tell the world that america is open for business . i know there ’ s an old site right here in galesburg , over on monmouth boulevard -- let ’ s put some folks to work .
i pray that we will . and as we journey together on this `` march of living hope , '' i pray that , in his name , we will run and not be weary , and walk and not be faint , and we 'll heed those words and `` put on love . ''
this is not easy . and i 'll be blunt -- a lot of members of congress , this is tough for them . because those who are opposed to any form of legislation affecting guns , they 're very well-organized and they 're very well-financed . but it can be done if enough voices are heard .
unfortunately , too many of our citizens have lost faith that our biggest institutions -- our corporations , our media , and , yes , our government -- still reflect these same values . each of these institutions are full of honorable men and women doing important work that helps our country prosper . but each time a ceo rewards himself for failure , or a banker puts the rest of us at risk for his own selfish gain , people 's doubts grow . each time lobbyists game the system or politicians tear each other down instead of lifting this country up , we lose faith . the more that tv pundits reduce serious debates to silly arguments , big issues into sound bites , our citizens turn away .
thank you very much . good afternoon , everybody . secretary clinton and i just concluded a meeting that focused on the ongoing situation in libya . over the last few days , my national security team has been working around the clock to monitor the situation there and to coordinate with our international partners about a way forward .
that 's the purpose of the stress tests that will soon tell us how much additional capital will be needed to support lending at our largest banks . ideally , these needs will be met by private investors who are willing to put in money to these banks .
but as hard as it may be , we should not , and can not , give in to cynicism or despair . the changes taking place in the region make peace more important , not less .
our tears are not enough . our words and our prayers are not enough . if we really want to honor these 12 men and women , if we really want to be a country where we can go to work , and go to school , and walk our streets free from senseless violence , without so many lives being stolen by a bullet from a gun , then we 're going to have to change . we 're going to have to change .
but there are certain investments in our future that we can not delay , precisely because our economy is in turmoil . mr. president , i 've exceeded the time a little bit . i would like unanimous consent for a couple more minutes .
now , i ’ m not saying that the only way to achieve success is by climbing to the top of the corporate ladder or running for office -- although , let ’ s face it , congress would get a lot more done if you did . that i think we ’ re sure about . but if you decide not to sit yourself at the table , at the very least you ’ ve got to make sure you have a say in who does . it matters .
i think in whatever your job is you should be willing to take responsibility for getting the best information , to listening to everybody , but then you have to just -- you have to make a decision and understand then that you have to continue to evaluate it . and i think that that 's been very important .
and that may not always be sexy . that may not always attract a lot of attention , and it doesn ’ t make for good argument on sunday morning shows . but it avoids errors . you hit singles , you hit doubles ; every once in a while we may be able to hit a home run . but we steadily advance the interests of the american people and our partnership with folks around the world .
and that is the key not just for individual americans , that ’ s the key for this whole country ’ s ability to compete in the global economy . in the new economy , jobs and businesses will go wherever the most skilled , best-educated workforce resides . because businesses are mobile now . technology means they can locate anywhere . and where they have the most educated , most adaptable , most nimble workforce , that 's where they ’ re going to locate . and i want them to look no further than the united states of america . i want them coming right here . i want those businesses here , and i want the american people to be able to get those businesses -- or get those jobs that those businesses create .
it would threaten the elimination of israel , the security of gulf nations , and the stability of the global economy . it risks triggering a nuclear-arms race in the region , and the unraveling of the non-proliferation treaty .
the war in iraq is over and we welcomed our troops home . thanks to our brave personnel -- including our incredible navy seals -- we delivered justice to osama bin laden . in afghanistan , the transition is underway , our troops are coming home , and by the end of next year our war in afghanistan will come to an end .
so that means our cars will be getting better gas mileage , saving 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the life of the program -- 1.8 billion . our consumers will save money from fewer trips to the pump -- $ 3,000 on average over time you will save because of these higher fuel efficiency standards . and our automakers will build more innovative products . right now , there are even cars rolling off the assembly lines in detroit with combustion engines -- i ’ m not talking about hybrids -- combustion engines that get more than 50 miles per gallon . so we know how to do it . we know how to make our cars more efficient .
but looking back , as i look at that 19-year old young man , i 'm more forgiving of the fact that the speech might not have been that great , because i knew -- i know now that something inside me was stirring at that time , something important .
make no mistake : the cost of our health care is a threat to our economy . it 's an escalating burden on our families and businesses . it 's a ticking time bomb for the federal budget . and it is unsustainable for the united states of america .
the future must not belong to those who slander the prophet of islam . but to be credible , those who condemn that slander must also condemn the hate we see in the images of jesus christ that are desecrated , or churches that are destroyed , or the holocaust that is denied .
a single employee of an american company was convicted of stealing intellectual property reportedly worth 400 million dollars . it 's been estimated that last year alone cyber criminals stole intellectual property from businesses worldwide worth up to 1 trillion dollars .
yes , business , and not government , will always be the primary generator of good jobs with incomes that lift people into the middle class and keep them there . but as a nation , we ’ ve always come together , through our government , to help create the conditions where both workers and businesses can succeed . and historically , that hasn ’ t been a partisan idea . franklin roosevelt worked with democrats and republicans to give veterans of world war ii -- including my grandfather , stanley dunham -- the chance to go to college on the g.i . bill . it was a republican president , dwight eisenhower , a proud son of kansas -- who started the interstate highway system , and doubled down on science and research to stay ahead of the soviets .
it was 50 years ago that a young candidate for president came here to michigan and delivered a speech that inspired one of the most successful service projects in american history . and as john f. kennedy described the ideals behind what would become the peace corps , he issued a challenge to the students who had assembled in ann arbor on that october night : “ on your willingness to contribute part of your life to this country , ” he said , will depend the answer whether a free society can compete . i think it can , ” he said .
for we know that if the earthly tent we live in is destroyed , we have a building from god , an eternal house in heaven not built by human hands . we gather here in memory of twenty beautiful children and six remarkable adults . they lost their lives in a school that could have been any school ; in a quiet town full of good and decent people that could be any town in america .
first , we ’ re going to do more to spot it and stop it . we ’ ll prepare a new assessment of human trafficking in the united states so we better understand the scope and scale of the problem . we ’ ll strengthen training , so investigators and law enforcement are even better equipped to take action -- and treat victims as victims , not as criminals . ( applause . ) we ’ re going to work with amtrak , and bus and truck inspectors , so that they ’ re on the lookout . we ’ ll help teachers and educators spot the signs as well , and better serve those who are vulnerable , especially our young people .
now , i stayed here for four years -- a time that helped shape my childhood ; a time that saw the birth of my wonderful sister , maya ; a time that made such an impression on my mother that she kept returning to indonesia over the next 20 years to live and to work and to travel -- and to pursue her passion of promoting opportunity in indonesia ’ s villages , especially opportunity for women and for girls . and i was so honored -- i was so honored when president yudhoyono last night at the state dinner presented an award on behalf of my mother , recognizing the work that she did . and she would have been so proud , because my mother held indonesia and its people very close to her heart for her entire life .
you know , two weeks after the first march was turned back , dr. king spoke , and he told a gathering of organizers and activists and community members -- he said that they should not despair because `` the arc of the moral universe is long , but it bends toward justice . ''
this approach is basically the one i ’ ve been advocating for months . in addition to the trillion dollars of spending cuts i ’ ve already signed into law , it ’ s a balanced plan that would reduce the deficit by making additional spending cuts , by making modest adjustments to health care programs like medicare and medicaid , and by reforming our tax code in a way that asks the wealthiest americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair share . what ’ s more , the spending cuts wouldn ’ t happen so abruptly that they ’ d be a drag on our economy , or prevent us from helping small businesses and middle-class families get back on their feet right away .
this morning i had the great privilege of visiting the tomb of your extraordinary founder of your republic . and i was deeply impressed by this beautiful memorial to a man who did so much to shape the course of history . but it is also clear that the greatest monument to ataturk 's life is not something that can be cast in stone and marble . his greatest legacy is turkey 's strong , vibrant , secular democracy , and that is the work that this assembly carries on today .
to provide for our common security , we must strengthen our alliance . nato was founded 60 years ago , after communism took over czechoslovakia . that was when the free world learned too late that it could not afford division . so we came together to forge the strongest alliance that the world has ever known . and we should -- stood shoulder to shoulder -- year after year , decade after decade -- until an iron curtain was lifted , and freedom spread like flowing water .
in kenya , we ’ ve seen terrorists target innocent civilians in a crowded shopping mall , and our hearts go out to the families of those who have been affected . in pakistan , nearly 100 people were recently killed by suicide bombers outside a church .
our allegiance has never been to any particular tribe or kingdom -- indeed , every language is spoken in our country ; every culture has left its imprint on ours ; every point of view is expressed in our public squares .
they will no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or in a lifetime . we will place a limit on how much you can be charged for out-of-pocket expenses , because in the united states of america , no one should go broke because they get sick .
that obviously was not the case in the deepwater horizon rig , and i want to know why . the american people deserve to know why . the families i met with last week who lost their loved ones in the explosion -- these families deserve to know why .
as kids go through school , we ’ ll recruit new math and science teachers to make sure that they ’ ve got the skills that the future demands . we ’ ll help more young people in low-income neighborhoods get summer jobs . we ’ ll redesign our high schools and encourage our kids to stay in high school , so that the diploma they get leads directly to a good job once they graduate .
we can pursue joint research and development to create green jobs ; give india more access to cleaner , affordable energy ; meet the commitments we made at copenhagen ; and show the possibilities of low-carbon growth .
we see that spirit in the israeli father whose son was killed by hamas , who helped start an organization that brought together israelis and palestinians who had lost loved ones . that father said , “ i gradually realized that the only hope for progress was to recognize the face of the conflict. ” we see it in the actions of a palestinian who lost three daughters to israeli shells in gaza .
and , by the way , one of the changes that i would like to see -- and i 'm going to be talking about this in weeks to come -- is once again seeing our best and our brightest commit themselves to making things -- engineers , scientists , innovators . for so long , we have placed at the top of our pinnacle folks who can manipulate numbers and engage in complex financial calculations . and that 's good , we need some of that . but you know what we can really use is some more scientists and some more engineers , who are building and making things that we can export to other countries .
this is , however , just the first step . this compromise requires that both parties work together on a larger plan to cut the deficit , which is important for the long-term health of our economy . and since you can ’ t close the deficit with just spending cuts , we ’ ll need a balanced approach where everything is on the table . yes , that means making some adjustments to protect health care programs like medicare so they ’ re there for future generations . it also means reforming our tax code so that the wealthiest americans and biggest corporations pay their fair share . and it means getting rid of taxpayer subsidies to oil and gas companies , and tax loopholes that help billionaires pay a lower tax rate than teachers and nurses .
president obama : but we do need to stay focused on some big challenges , like climate change . luther : hey , listen , ya 'll , if you have n't noticed , california is bone dry . it looks like a trailer for the new `` mad max '' movie up in there . ya 'll think that bradley cooper came here because he wants to talk to chuck todd ? he needed a glass of water . come on !
and for most of this country ’ s history , we in the african-american community have been at the receiving end of man ’ s inhumanity to man . and all of us understand insidious -- all of us understand intimately the insidious role that race still sometimes plays on the job and in the schools , in our health care system , and in our criminal justice system .
i do make apologies for not having executed better over the last several months question : and do you think that execution and the flaws in the rollout will affect your ability to do other things , like immigration reform and other policy priorities ?
and so one of the questions we talked about was , how do you build trust ? how do you rebuild some trust ? and i told the story about two conversations i had . the first conversation was when michelle came back from doing some campaigning out in rural iowa .
first of all , american democracy has thrived because we have recognized the need for a government that , while limited , can still help us adapt to a changing world . on the fourth panel of the jefferson memorial is a quote i remember reading to my daughters during our first visit there . it says , “ i am not an advocate for frequent changes in laws and constitutions , but ... with the change of circumstances , institutions must advance also to keep pace with the times . ”
so let ’ s dream . instead of doing nothing or simply defending 20th century solutions , let ’ s imagine together what we could do to give every american a fighting chance in the 21st century .
and here at pensacola , you ’ re carrying on the proud tradition of naval aviation that spans a century . here at the barrancas national cemetery , our heroes from yesterday ’ s wars are still inspiring us . and like generations before you , you ’ re no strangers to sacrifice . our prayers are with the families and friends of the crews that you lost in that training exercise two months ago . today , we send out our thoughts and prayers to all the folks from pensacola on the frontlines at this very moment , including iraq and afghanistan . they are making us incredibly proud .
our economy is recovering . a decade of war is ending . a long campaign is now over . and whether i earned your vote or not , i have listened to you . i have learned from you . and you 've made me a better president . with your stories and your struggles , i return to the white house more determined and more inspired than ever about the work there is to do , and the future that lies ahead .
they ’ re not keeping it just for us . and that means that if there ’ s rising demand around the world then the prices are going to up that ’ s not the future that i want for america . i don ’ t want folks like these back here and the folks in front of me to have to pay more at the pump every time that there ’ s some unrest in the middle east and oil speculators get nervous about whether there ’ s going to be enough supply . i don ’ t want our kids to be held hostage to events on the other side of the world .
but after democrats and republicans committed to fiscal discipline during the 1990s , we lost our way in the decade that followed . we increased spending dramatically for two wars and an expensive prescription drug program -– but we didn ’ t pay for any of this new spending . instead , we made the problem worse with trillions of dollars in unpaid-for tax cuts -– tax cuts that went to every millionaire and billionaire in the country ; tax cuts that will force us to borrow an average of $ 500 billion every year over the next decade .
so i would ask sal ’ s team , all of battle company who were with him that day , to please stand and be recognized as well . gentlemen , thank you for your service . we ’ re all in your debt . and i ’ m proud to be your commander-in-chief .
our task then is to make our national laws actually work -- to shape a system that reflects our values as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants . and that means being honest about the problem , and getting past the false debates that divide the country rather than bring it together .
jim avila . question : thank you , mr. president . first of all , on cuba , if i could , two questions . the cuban government has frequently said that it can not allow more political or personal freedoms , or press freedoms , because the united states has used both covert and otherwise actions to try to overthrow the castros . does your new era , in fact , end regime-change efforts by the united states ? and should the cubans then respond by allowing free elections and tolerance of dissent now because of the changed policy ?
the people of the world can live together in peace . we know that is god 's vision . now that must be our work here on earth . thank you . and may god 's peace be upon you . thank you very much . thank you .
the bombing that killed 168 people could not break oklahoma city . on 9/11 , terrorists tried to bring us to our knees ; today a new tower soars above new york city , and america continues to lead throughout the world . after americans were killed at fort hood and the boston marathon , it didn ’ t divide us ; we came together as one american family .
distinguished guests , fellow citizens -- in 1958 , ted kennedy was a young man working to reelect his brother , jack , to the united states senate . on election night , the two toasted one another : “ here ’ s to 1960 , mr. president , ” ted said , “ if you can make it. ” with his quick irish wit , jack returned the toast : “ here ’ s to 1962 , senator kennedy , if you can make it. ” they both made it . and today , they ’ re together again in eternal rest at arlington .
and last week , here in connecticut , your elected leaders responded . the connecticut legislature , led by many of the legislators here today , passed new measures to protect more of our children and our communities from gun violence . and governor malloy signed that legislation into law .
finally , we share the common goal of denying al qaeda a safe haven in pakistan or afghanistan . the world has come too far to let this region backslide , and to let al qaeda terrorists plot further attacks . that 's why we are committed to a more focused effort to disrupt , dismantle , and defeat al qaeda . that is why we are increasing our efforts to train afghans to sustain their own security , and to reconcile former adversaries . that 's why we are increasing our support for the people of afghanistan and pakistan , so that we stand on the side not only of security , but also of opportunity and the promise of a better life .
for throughout all this history , the fate of this city came down to a simple question : will we live free or in chains ? under governments that uphold our universal rights , or regimes that suppress them ? in open societies that respect the sanctity of the individual and our free will , or in closed societies that suffocate the soul ?
because of you , tonight i can stand here and say that i will be the democratic nominee for the president of the united states of america . i want to -- i want to thank -- i want to thank -- i want to thank all those in montana and south dakota who stood up for change today . i want to thank every american who stood with us over the course of this campaign , through the good days and the bad , from the snows of cedar rapids to the sunshine of sioux falls .
i know that some now criticize the action in libya as an object lesson . they point to the problems that the country now confronts -- a democratically elected government struggling to provide security ; armed groups , in some places extremists , ruling parts of a fractured land .
and i ’ ll say just in closing , to all the people here from latin american countries , thank you for this extraordinary opportunity . i want to thank the people of panama . i am very optimistic about this region , and the main reason i ’ m optimistic about this region is because of its people . they are extraordinary . and it is a great gift to the united states to be able to have such strong friends and partners in tackling many of the challenges that we have in common .
the fact is , our economy did not fall into decline overnight . nor did all of our problems begin when the housing market collapsed or the stock market sank . we have known for decades that our survival depends on finding new sources of energy . yet we import more oil today than ever before . the cost of health care eats up more and more of our savings each year , yet we keep delaying reform . our children will compete for jobs in a global economy that too many of our schools do not prepare them for . and though all these challenges went unsolved , we still managed to spend more money and pile up more debt , both as individuals and through our government , than ever before .
